You do have almost an equal set of
headwind and tailwinds for the equity
market, but things got out a little bit
over their skis here. They got a little
white-hot.
>> There's probably some room to see more
pullback.
>> lot of warning signs. There's a lot of
froth in the system.
>> These pullbacks and corrections won't
turn into something more nefarious. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowitz, and Anne Marie
Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, teeing up a major week
ahead. We'll get quarterly earnings from
retailers Home Depot, Target, and
Walmart, plus chip giant Nvidia
reporting following a volatile week for
megacap tech and a much-delayed jobs
report. Payrolls data just around the
corner. That data only days away.
>> So, here's the question. And Stuart
Kaiser over at City, please plug your
ears. Will good data coming from the
jobs market in September be good for
markets or be bad for markets? And if
you're screaming at the screen and
saying it's always good information, at
the same time, you have to think about
the Federal Reserve and what
justification they'll have to
potentially cut rates. Right now, there
is a 43% chance priced in for the Fed
funds futures for December of a rate
cut. That is down from more than a 100%
chance before the last Fed rate meeting.
Not to overdo it, but it could be quite
a defining week going into year-end for
financial markets worldwide. The
consumer setting the tone for that.
Retail earnings later on this week, plus
that payrolls report as well. Just a few
more weeks to go until that Fed meeting.
>> Finally, this data desert is starting to
evaporate and the market's going to get
fed with a tremendous amount of data
this week. And I think even more
important than the jobs report, maybe
even more important than the Nvidia
report, is going to be what retailers
have to say. Given the fact that we've
already heard from the likes of
Chipotle, we've heard from McDonald's,
which was talking about the concern
about the health of the consumer, the
fact that the administration is also
starting to lower tariffs on things like
agriculture. What does the affordability
crisis in this country look like ahead
of Thanksgiving? That is going to be on
display this week.
>> Does Main Street need to talk about Wall
Street? Earnings in focus, Nvidia, the
major one, of course. Palantir, Nvidia,
Oracle all having a difficult go of it
in the last few months or so. But let's
take stock of things. The S&P 500 2%
away from all-time highs. High yield
spreads still below 300 basis points. If
you came down from Mars and looked at
this market, this market still looks
pretty frothy. This market still looks
pretty fully valued.
>> And if you had an ear to Wall Street,
you'd hear this bullish chorus coming
from all the strategists heading into
next year. So, it's not as though people
are throwing in the towel and saying,
"The bubble is upon us. Let's all hide
in here and and run for the hills." Here
is the issue. Nvidia's gain. How often
do we see this sort of perpetuate the
idea that there is this real robust AI
bet? What point does it become
emblematic of the pain elsewhere? The
idea that Microsoft and Apple and
Apple, maybe not so much, but Amazon and
Google are all racing to buy expensive
chips that have a very quick
depreciation schedule in order to just
stay ahead of the next guy without
necessarily an eye on what the ultimate
goal really is.
>> a bullish forecast?
>> Please. 7,800 by year-end 2026. Mike
Wilson at Morgan Stanley. Here's the
quote. "We're in the midst of a new bull
market and earning cycle, especially for
many of the lagging areas of the index."
Mike Wilson at Morgan Stanley looking
for a big move over the next 12 months.
>> And overweighting small caps, seeing a
rotation into some of the less-loved
areas. And one thing that he and other
bulls that are coming out of Wall Street
into 2026 are saying is, "It is helped
by an accommodative Fed." This is the
reason why it is so important to put
this picture together and understand
whether the Fed will have the
justification to keep cutting rates,
keeping accommodative in the face of the
ongoing spending that we see not only
from the consumer, but also from AI
giants.
>> Stocks just about positive this morning,
caught by 0.2% on the S&P. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Russ
Koesterich of BlackRock as stocks look
to start the week on a firmer footing.
Torsten Slok of Apollo on the case for a
rebound in the economy and the former
White House trade adviser Kate
Lukowitsch with the US saying all
options are on the table for China trade
talks. We begin this hour with stocks
little changed as traders gear up for a
key week of earnings and the return of
longer-waited economic data. Russ
Koesterich of BlackRock writing, "We
remain long stocks into year-end. While
valuations in parts of the market are
stretched, many of the megacap tech
names are still attractive." Russ joins
us now for more. Russ, welcome to the
program. We often play this game. If
you're looking for the retail earnings
later this week, there's tons, Nvidia in
the mix as well, a delayed payrolls
report. If you had to pick one this
morning, Russ, as the driving factor for
this market, which one would you pick?
Good morning, Jonathan.
Look, if I had to pick one, I'd probably
pick payrolls because we haven't had any
in a while, and the market's going to
fixate on it for for understandable
reasons. But as I listened to Anne Marie
in the lead-up to the the broadcast, I
think she said something very profound,
which is a close second
is going to be the retail earnings. And
the reason is there's a lot of anxiety
about the consumer right now. Part of it
is some of the comments from other
retailers and restaurants. Part of it is
just the absence of any data last month
or two. So, I believe that we are going
to see a lot of focus on the big-box
retailers. What are they saying about
the health of the consumer? So, Russ,
the White House right now is telling you
they want to make America more
affordable. Should we take that bet?
Should we put that bets on and bet on
that success over the next 12 months and
leaning to some of these names?
Well, I I believe that they're they're
they're serious in that effort and and
clearly some of the announcements over
the weekend lean in that direction. But
you know, there are another couple
things here also that are worth keeping
in mind. The most important of which is
we have seen prices remain sticky. Part
of that is on the tariff side. We can
say that because we know it's coming
from the goods.
Uh
many of those increases are going to
begin to fall out as we get into Q2 of
next year. In addition, if you look at
other components of the CPI, you look at
some of the service
uh areas, you look at housing, they are
starting to come down. So, the notion
that inflation is just permanently stuck
at 3%. I don't think that's right
either. I do think that we are going to
begin to see prices come down, the CPI
come down as we get into Q2. And also,
and and this is a big debate and it's
also a longer-term issue, there is an
argument, which I think is right, that
AI is ultimately deflationary. And as we
start to see more of an impact on
corporations, on productivity, on
efficiency, that's also going to help
bring prices down, keep inflation below
where it might have been.
Russ, let's say that the retailers come
out with earnings that are pretty good.
And they talk about a consumer that's
strong, that's able to go out there and
keep spending, although perhaps more
choicefully or more limitedly
is a more accurate way of putting it.
And let's say that the jobs report comes
out not showing that much distress. Can
the Fed still cut rates?
Well, that's I think a great question.
And this is why you might even get a
weak payroll number, and depending upon
how weak it is, the market may actually
react positively. But I do think, you
know, the Fed has made it very clear the
December cut is now more in question.
I do think the payroll number is going
to be critical. But we know from the
consumer side is that we do have a
bifurcated consumer. There's definitely
pockets of weakness. We've known that
for some time. Part of that is a lagged
effect of rate hikes a few years ago.
Lower-income consumers are struggling
more. The flip side of that is you've
got an older, affluent consumer that has
benefited from stock market gains.
They've benefited from generally higher
rates over the last couple of years
because it's meant more income on their
cash, and they're still spending. We are
seeing that in travel and many parts of
the economy where spending is holding up
remarkably well.
So, I guess that what I'm struggling
with is if the Fed doesn't cut rates,
doesn't have the accommodative backdrop
that so many people are expecting, can
you still be bullish on stocks? Or is
the bullishness on stocks predicated on
the idea that the Federal Reserve is
going to focus on the bifurcated economy
and then the lower tier of that economy
and not worry about a bubble, not worry
about inflated equity valuations, and
just say, "That's not our job."
I I think it's a good question. There
are three pillars in my mind to watch
stocks and go higher. One is the Fed,
and as you rightly point out, if they
don't cut, okay, that that calls that a
little bit into question. But there are
two others that we're pretty confident
about. One is the economy is in good
shape. Now, obviously, the labor market
is a bit soft. We don't know exactly how
much, but it has softened. But the
reality is if you look at growth
expectations, it's not crazy that you're
going to see some acceleration in the
beginning of '26 on stronger CapEx, on a
very likely powerful refund season. So,
that's one positive. The second are
earnings. And obviously, we continue to
see that market higher. And a lot of
that is driven by tech. Now, there are
legitimate questions about valuations.
There are legitimate questions about
CapEx. But if you look at why tech is
continued to lead, you don't have to
look much further than the earnings
we've seen in Q1 and Q3 and probably in
Q4. That probably it continues into 2026
regardless of what the Fed did. Again,
these companies, their earnings outlook
is not really going to be driven or
impacted that significantly by whether
or not the Fed cuts a quarter point in
December or they don't. Russ, when it
comes to tech, Nvidia is going to be
really important this week. An analysis
of all the 13F filings, you see an even
split amongst amongst sentiment in terms
of those that are bullish and taking
some money off the table when it comes
to Nvidia. Why do you think that is?
Such an even split right now.
Well, I do think there are a lot of
questions about the CapEx and the
build-out. Uh but the reality is is the
spend going to continue? Yes, we believe
it will. So, you know, you look at where
we started the year, you're talking
about maybe around 350 billion by the
four hyperscalers. That's gone up for
2025.
Again, it's very likely to go up again
in 2026.
Now, you can debate, is it an arms race?
We do think a lot of this is ultimately
going to lead to gains in productivity,
and we're going to continue to see a
broadening out of that CapEx spend. It's
not just about the chips. It really
extends further into the economy, in
construction, in HVAC, in the industrial
side, in energy. So, again, I think it's
a mistake to only focus on one company.
So, in that sense, the Treasury
Secretary spoke about talked about this
this weekend, this idea of parallel
prosperity, Main Street and Wall Street
both doing well. Could AI be the gateway
to that?
Yes, I I think it can. I think when you
consider both
the build-out we're seeing, uh but also
again, the long-term implications for
activity. You know, there are a lot of
concerns right now about the labor
market, and there are anecdotal stories
about are companies hiring fewer
entry-level uh individuals, workers
because of AI? Truth is, it's early
days, we don't know yet. What we do know
is that we are seeing increased
adoption. We are seeing early signs of
productivity, and that's something
long-term that I think is the Treasury
Secretary alluded to is a positive for
the economy. Hi Russ, a lot of people
hope you're right. It's good to catch
up, sir, as always. Russ Koesterich
there of BlackRock on financial markets
worldwide and the tech theme in credit
over the past few weeks. Some select
convulsions starting to develop in the
credit markets. Is that a fair way of
characterizing things?
>> I think that's a beautiful way of of
characterizing things. Select
convulsions. You can see those select
convulsions in Oracle bonds. You can see
the select convulsions in credit default
swaps attached to some of these names.
And you see these convulsions in people
pushing back on certain corporate debt
issuance that just seems a little bit
too speculative. The glut of bonds that
has been sold by big AI tech companies
has just been astronomical over the past
3 months. This is a reason why people
are getting very concerned.
>> We often talk about healthy pullbacks. I
think a greater scrutiny of the
foundations of some of these spending
commitments is a healthy thing. And it's
a healthy thing we're starting to see in
credit markets. Just that subtle
pushback just to say, "You know what?
We've got some questions here. Let's see
some answers."
>> Are we going to supply debt to a company
that's earning nothing, that's supplying
CoreWeave, that's a speculative-grade
rated company, to supply Nvidia and
OpenAI with services that they don't
have to supply themselves? It raises
this question of the circularity, but
also what the outlook is for how much
energy use, data center usage, and what
the paradigm's going to be in 5 years at
a time where people can't see 2 ft in
front of their face when it comes to AI.
>> Nvidia's got to carry a lot of weight
later this week when we get those
earnings. Look out for that on
Wednesday. Equity futures on the S&P 500
this morning positive by 2/10 of 1% with
an update on stories worldwide. With
your Bloomberg brief, here's Yohara
Anand. Hi Yohara. Good morning, John.
President Trump said House Republicans
should vote to require the Justice
Department to release its files on
Jeffrey Epstein, reversing a previous
position he had. Trump has been under
increasing pressure from some within his
party to release the investigative
materials on the convicted sex offender.
The House is scheduled to vote on it
tomorrow.
Meanwhile, tensions are ramping up
between China and Japan. China state
media warning Beijing is prepared for
economic retaliation for Japanese Prime
Minister Sanae Takaichi's comments on
Taiwan. This after Takaichi said a
Chinese attack on Taiwan could trigger a
Japanese military response.
And US airlines are resuming normal
operations this morning after more than
a week of government-mandated flight
reductions. The FAA announcing it is
lifting cuts across 40 major airports.
The agency said staffing levels have
continued to snap back since the
shutdown ended last week. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. Yohara, thank
you. Appreciate it. More from Yohara
later this hour. Up next on the program,
taking game at Russia.
They're passing legislation or putting
the Republicans are
putting in legislation that uh
very tough. So, any country that does
business with Russia will be very
severely sanctioned. Our conversation up
next with Terry Haines of Panjiva Policy
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[Music]
Payrolls Thursday just around the
corner. Your estimates look like this.
We're looking for 50K on Thursday.
That's your median estimate. The range
is pretty wide. The high is 75. Thank
you, Deutsche Bank. The low is 40. And
the estimates will keep pouring in going
into that number. And what do we do with
them? We're not going to necessarily
have an unemployment rate. We're going
to have to wait for the uh real income
levels when we look at Friday's data.
That's when the uh inflation-adjusted
real wage is going to come out. So, what
do you do with this? It's
backward-looking. It's messy. It's
something that a lot of people are going
to question. There isn't a reference
point. It's already been messy. You
know, pick your pick your narrative.
>> Let's go with Neel Kashkari. Minneapolis
Fed president came out recently and said
that he didn't like the rate cut that
was delivered at last month's meeting.
And one of the reasons he didn't like it
is that he was seeing signs of spending
pick up again after the summer. Is that
validated in the jobs number for the
month of September? I know it's
backward-looking, but it's all we've
got. And I just wonder if it validates
some of the hawks out there going into
the December meeting.
>> This is the reason why I think a big
upside surprise could be the most
negative for markets because it would
really edify this idea that there's a
lot of pent-up strength that people are
underestimating in the underlying jobs
economy. Equity futures on the S&P into
all of that just about positive by 0.3
on the S&P, on the Nasdaq up by 0.5 on
the Russell so far this morning, up a
tenth of 1%. Under Savannah's this
morning, taking game at Russia.
They're passing legislation or putting
the Republicans are putting in
legislation that uh
very tough. It's sanctioning, etc., etc.
on any country doing business with
Russia. They may add uh Iran to that, as
you know. I suggested it.
So, any country that does business with
Russia will be very severely sanctioned.
Uh we may add Iran to the formula. So,
here's the latest this morning,
President Trump ramping up the pressure
on Russia as he backs a proposed bill to
sanction countries doing business with
the country. Bloomberg's Mika Saona
joins us now for more. So, Mika, I can
think of some pretty big economies doing
business with Russia still, and it
includes the Europeans. Mika, who does
this include?
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, this is a huge
shift from President Trump when it comes
to his posture on Russia, but this is
going to include a number of countries
and particularly uh US adversaries as
well. So, countries like China and
India, and as the president just
mentioned before,
he wants to add Iran to it. So, this is
a key part of the president really
trying to shape his foreign policy
legacy here as well. Do we know if
there's going to be some runway provided
to these countries to actually
de-escalate, de-emphasize their
relationship with Russia?
Yeah, I mean, I think that there's a lot
of details that are still being worked
out. This has been a long time push by
uh Senate Republicans and Senate
Democrats, I might add, on the Hill
who've had this bill and have been
advocating for it. But I think that um
you know, this is largely indicative of
the president's frustration with
Vladimir Putin for him to try and
escalate tactics like this on the uh
global economy. So, we're going to have
to see um you know, what happens here.
Mika Saona, a flame back down in
Washington, D.C. We've heard this. It's
been building for a while. The push
against Russia, the push against
countries, economies doing business with
them, notably China, India. Who else
does this apply to? Well, I think really
it's about China and India because this
is going to really force China to either
have to go around some of the sanctions
or deal the blow from the United States
at the same time. But the Treasury
Secretary over the weekend talked about
the fact that they don't have the final
agreement in ink fully in place, and
they expect that to happen by
Thanksgiving. Is this now another point
of leverage Washington is trying to use?
>> And joining us now is Terry Haines of
Panjiva Policy. Terry, welcome to the
program. What is the president's big
effort around Russia all about? And will
he actually follow through?
Uh good morning all. Uh I'm on team Anne
Marie this morning uh to pick up on that
point about leverage.
Uh this is about a lot of things, but
one thing it is is exactly about that.
Uh
what you can read between the lines from
Secretary Bessant yesterday in a long
interview
uh is that the the supposed current deal
that's happening between the United
States and China is now taking a lot
longer to paper than uh than was widely
thought even that Bessant had said. So,
it's about that. Uh it's about uh
pushing India, I think, on uh on getting
a trade deal done. Secondly, uh thirdly,
I think it's about pushing the Europeans
on uh on on getting serious on
on Russia as well. Uh the president has
long said that
the uh
the the United States policy only works
well uh if the Europeans are willing to
uh to to pull equal weight here. And uh
Europeans have been tap-dancing on uh
core questions around Russia and frozen
Russian assets for years, literally. And
uh either they're going to get serious
or the Ukraine thing is going to drag on
for even longer. Terry, the
administration's going to use this
leverage as part of the destination, but
when we get to the final destination, do
you think Congress will end up passing
this bill?
Um I think the uh I think they can,
sure. Uh the the willingness exists.
Uh the votes exist. Uh this is a lot
more up to uh what the president wants
to do in terms of how he
how he wants to use that particular
pressure point. One one thing I saw in
Trump's uh impromptu remarks there
frankly was an ability to take the thing
off and put it back take the thing off
the back burner and put it on the front
burner.
Russia may may dismiss that but I think
they probably dismiss that at their
peril considering that the president has
the
ability
thanks to Congress
to actually get this thing done if he
chooses. Treasury secretary seems to be
throwing cold water on a Wall Street
Journal report that says China is trying
to ratchet back rare earth minerals that
go to companies that help the US
military. Do you think China will amend
that or is this something that they're
going to stick with?
I think the track record here is that
China has been I think Bessent referred
to April 6th in that interview as being
the the date in which screw the high
drink started on rare earths.
I think they've been doing this for six
or seven months and I think the base
case has to be that they'll continue to
do it. So what you from a markets
perspective you have to take that into
account you also have to take into
account that the United States is going
to continue to redouble and redouble
every effort it can to
to get rare earths and start rare earths
that are not of Chinese origin. Terry
how much of a conflict is there between
trying to get leverage in some of these
trade talks and trying to get cost of
living gains for the United States and
for average consumers given the fact
that that seems to be a renewed push by
the president. Is there a conflict here?
I think there's a an order of precedence
here and the order of precedence from
the administration's point of view
is that they need to get the trade the
trade deals done as as many and as much
as possible and and move forward from
there and they will
you know they they tend to
to put their stake out kind of you know
far and in a in a pure sense and and
when work back and and cut back as they
need to. I think that's a lot of what
you saw with the foodstuffs tariffs last
weekend. Bessent
talked about this as being mostly a
matter of existing trade deals coming or
new trade deals coming into force.
I don't think that's quite the case it's
part of the case
but what they'll continue to do is is
continue to work on the trade deals with
the idea that they can calibrate them
pretty much on in real time as they need
to. Terry just to circle back full
circle to the beginning of the
conversation how much can this
administration go really hard on China
with sanctions on oil if it raises
gasoline prices in the United States at
a time where there's a real cost of
living focus?
I think the the priority for the
administration there's a balance here
but the priority for the administration
is going to be making sure that China
understands that it will use the
leverage of it that that the United
States has
and that's certainly a big part of it. I
think the president cares a lot about
gasoline prices but
one reason why he talks up so much the
price of gasoline coming down
frankly I think is he wants to buy
himself some wiggle room with the public
to to make sure that if he ends up
having to to to drop a dime on China on
oil
that people understand the the what's
and why's. Terry it's good to hear from
you thank you sir. Terry Haines of Pan
Policy on the latest in Washington. One
of the top stories in Washington if
you're tracking the Epstein story many
of you are. The president posting this
on social media over the weekend that
House Republicans should vote to release
the Epstein files because we have
nothing to hide and it's time to move
on. This is a reversal from what the
administration was trying to do which
was get Republicans to strike this down
and not vote for it. I think the
administration realizes that this was
going to go through anyway so you might
as well say I don't care let it come out
because pushing it was not working
regardless so now at least take the high
ground and then deal with the fallout
after. The president gone gone to say
the House oversight committee can have
whatever they are legally entitled to. I
don't care the words of the president
over the weekend. Coming up on the
program we'll catch up with Torsten Slok
of Apollo on the case for a
re-acceleration in the US economy plus
Danny has your morning movers a big move
on Alphabet today the stock is up by
almost 5% leading the max 7 higher on a
bigger stake from Berkshire Hathaway.
That stock is up by 4.8% in the
pre-market equity futures doing okay
futures up by a third of 1% following a
very very volatile week on Wall Street.
The epicenter of that big cap tech from
New York City this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Not enough volatility to stop these
equity market balls. Mike Wilson of
Morgan Stanley looking for 7800 year end
2026. Max Kettner of HSBC publishing
earlier on this morning we think the
probability of a melt up into year end
particularly in equities is much greater
now. Max Kettner of HSBC. Yeah just
joining the fray talking about how maybe
you should be worried no just just
kidding you absolutely shouldn't because
ultimately the earnings are going to be
there. Lots of recent pushback and our
continued constructive view are around
potential canaries in the coal mine.
Instead the built up really is what
keeps on burning the bears and what will
keep going. Last week did not feel like
a week of gains but we squeezed out a
week of gains on the S&P 500 up again
this morning up by quarter of 1% on the
S&P and the Nasdaq 100 higher by 0.4 in
the bond market the two year kind of
anchored around 350 360 still in that
range 35955 and a major debate
developing at the Federal Reserve. On
the FOMC the chorus the hawkish chorus
is growing louder and louder into
payrolls on Thursday. So on Friday
Dallas Fed president Lori Logan said I
think it would be hard to support
another rate cut unless we were get to
get convincing evidence from the data.
What is convincing evidence especially
without an inflation report because it's
unlikely we're going to get CPI and
we're not going to get a lot of key
metrics around some of the data that
does get released. So again what is the
reaction function from a Federal Reserve
that's operating in the dark? What is a
good number? 50k is the median estimate
on Thursday is that a good number? 50k
is the median the high 75 the low is 40.
Payrolls Thursday is just around the
corner trying to get used to that one as
we count you down to the open bell about
three hours away. Let's get you some
morning movers with Danny for more
here's Danny Berger. Hey Danny. Hey John
good morning. The good number for
Alphabet is 4.9 billion it's the amount
of the stake that Berkshire Hathaway has
built in Google's parent company
Alphabet reported filings at the end of
Friday. That's giving a boost to
Alphabet shares 4.8% is where we're
trading in the pre-market for what it's
worth. Berkshire Hathaway also trimmed
its Apple and its Bank of America
holdings. Elsewhere we got some earnings
from the Chinese EV maker Xpeng they are
listed here in the US. They had a
disappointing outlook and a
disappointing set of scores the issue
for them is that they had promised
profitability or at least their goal was
for profitability next year that throws
them into question. Shares declined 3%
this company has also been spending a
lot much like Tesla and trying to become
an autonomous company and build things
like humanoid robots. Finally a little
bit of sell-side action Morgan Stanley
out with a note on some hardware makers.
It gives a double downgrade to Dell to
underweight to HPE it's a downgrade just
to neutral saying that some of the
memory chip super cycle if there's
downside risk there and that has bad
implications for the hardware providers
like Dell. Like HPE. John. Hey Danny
thank you appreciate the update more
from Danny in about 60 minutes from now.
On our radar this morning President
Donald Trump backing a Senate proposed
bill that would slap Russian trading
partners with severe sanctions. The bill
would hit countries that buy Russian
energy like China India and potentially
Iran with 500% tariffs. Elsewhere the US
trade representative Jamison Career
heading to Europe this week after
calling out EU trade practices Career
pointed to European regulations and
barriers impacting US exports into the
continent despite the trade deal reached
earlier this year. And finally the
Treasury secretary Scott Bessent saying
President Trump's $2000 tariff dividend
payments to US citizens would need
congressional approval. One estimate
saying the plan could potentially cost
the US double what is projected to take
in for all of 2025. So Treasury
secretary Bessent has been trying to
thread a needle with respect to the
$2000 checks for quite a while. He's
been talking about initially maybe we
could just use some of the money that
we've gotten in that people are going to
be getting as tax rebates for the $2000
that didn't work so now he's talking
about well maybe we can't do this
unilaterally and it goes to sort of the
deep anxiety. How do you maintain budget
balanced budget kind of policy while
also providing fiscal stimulus and this
is going to be a conundrum right now for
the administration.
>> Not only do we need Congress in order to
do this you also need to make sure the
Supreme Court doesn't strike down your
IEPA tariffs in order to have those tens
of billions of dollars you brought in
from the tariffs to then redistribute
them to Americans. That's the first
thing that needs to happen. The second
thing it's very interesting hearing this
administration talking about checks when
for months all I heard during covering
the Biden administration when inflation
was sky high that it was goose by the
Biden administration because they sent
out a checks during COVID. So if you're
sitting at the Federal Reserve you have
to be concerned looking at this that
this might just impact inflation. There
is a bigger and bigger effort to make
this too big to strike down at the
Supreme Court and the Treasury secretary
offered a curious legal argument that
I'd love to hear from lawyers about over
the weekend that it's very difficult to
strike down a signature policy of a
sitting president. I'm not sure how
that's going to stand up in the Supreme
Court later on this year.
Having studied constitutional law I'm
not sure that a signature agenda by a
president has legal clout for the
Supreme Court in the Constitution. That
said it does highlight how perilous it
is for the Supreme Court to weigh
wholeheartedly and undermine this
particular policy because they will be
accused of politics and this will really
make it difficult for them to do this in
any kind of comprehensive way without
also laying out exactly how any kind of
remediation would take place, right? How
do they do that while still remain
credible? The other thing the Treasury
Secretary said is he doesn't think the
Supreme Court wants to wade in the mess
that this would become if they have to
start distributing funds back to
businesses. But remember, even if I eat
the struck down, they will find a way to
enact tariffs, but it's going to push
the timeline well into 2026 and that is
going to come ahead of key midterm
elections.
>> The economy very much in focus investors
awaiting the delayed September jobs
report due out on Thursday. Torsten Slok
of Apollo making the case for a rebound
in the economy writing liberation day
was almost 8 months ago. Fiscal and
monetary policy are easy and easy
financial conditions point to a
re-acceleration. Torsten joins us now
for more. Torsten, welcome back, sir.
Are you expecting to see some of that in
the September jobs data or is that too
early?
That is too early because the risk of
course is that in October we had the
government shutdown and of course the
chances that that therefore might be
some weaker data for the month of
potentially November also once we do get
that. But I do expect that once we look
into next year, we have still relatively
easy financial conditions with of course
the stock markets with some wobbles more
recently but still very supportive. IG
spreads, higher yield spreads, loan
spreads very supportive. You also at the
same time have that you have tailwinds
because liberation day is now 8 months
ago. And finally, we also have general
tailwinds because we are going into an
election year and therefore if we do get
the $2,000 stimulus checks that you just
talked about, that would certainly also
be helpful. So in total, I do think that
the market is too negative on the
economic outlook and the risks are
actually rising that we may have some
re-acceleration once we get into 2026.
>> Torsten, is that re-acceleration that
comes with jobs growth or not?
I do think that it would come with job
growth. It is actually very impressive
when we think about it that over the
last 8 months, think about what we've
been through, the shocks that the US
economy has been facing not only when it
comes to of course trade war, also the
shocks coming from immigration. And as
you just mentioned, Jonathan, the
non-farm payroll equilibrium is now down
at 50,000. According to the Dallas Fed,
it's as low as 30,000. But therefore the
bar has been lowered and therefore I do
think that if we get numbers that are in
that range, then we should look at that
and say this is exactly where we should
be. So in that sense, I do think that
the economy has been remarkably
resilient for the last 8 months and I do
think that as the trade war gets more
and more behind us, I do think that a
lot of the fog will be lifting. Torsten,
to Emrys' point earlier, how important
are the retail earnings this week? The
Walmarts, the Targets, the Lowes.
They are very important and they do feed
into the broader conversation about the
K-shaped recovery. So it is still the
case that high income households
continue to benefit from asset prices
having been higher and of course also
very importantly because the level of
yields is higher, that means that not
only are high income households
benefiting from asset prices going up,
but they also benefiting from the cash
flow they get in fixed income is at the
highest level in decades both when it
comes to public credit but also private
credit. So therefore the tailwind to
high income households continues to be
strong. Lower income households have
been suffering from interest rates going
up. They've also been suffering from
wage growth being weaker than what you
see for high income households. But
broadly speaking, again with job growth
still steady and stable and again the
trade war uncertainty more and more
behind us and especially now think about
the one big beautiful bill. The CBO is
estimating that that will lift GDP
growth next year by 0.9%. That's a very
significant tailwind from fiscal policy.
So all those things combined argue for
the economy beginning to look better as
we get into 2026.
>> And Torsten, conceivably this could
argue for the Fed not to cut rates and
explains why there has been a more
hawkish tilt to some of the
communication that we've gotten from Fed
officials recently. What do you think
the consequences would be if the Fed
cuts by another 50 to 75 basis points by
midyear next year?
Oh, that would be very serious because
think about it, we already have an
outlook if I type ECFC go on my
Bloomberg screen and look at the
quarterly profile, it is already the
case that the consensus expects
inflation to be 3% for the next 18
months while at the same time growth is
slowing down. So to your point here,
Lisa, if we now see that growth is
actually not slowing down and we already
have inflation at three in a slowdown
scenario, the risk is of course that
inflation could be even higher than 3%.
So cutting into that would of course be
a major mistake. So I do think that the
risks are rising that we are again
underestimating that inflation has a lot
more tailwind over the next several
quarters. With that as a potential
backdrop, what would it mean then if the
government gave everyone $2,000?
Oh, that of course would provide even
more fuel here to the economy. So if we
already have the one big beautiful bill
lifting GDP by almost a full percentage
point, we have trade war uncertainty
beginning to be more behind us. If we
still have stock prices, we are
discussing the AI bubble all of us very
intensely at the moment. But given that
there's still tailwind in the stock
market that's supporting of course high
income consumer households in
particular, all those things combined,
they definitely argue that if you send
out $2,000 checks, then you just run the
risk that you will overheat the economy
even more. Torsten, Torsten, then we're
introducing a new Fed chair on top of
all of this as well in May of next year.
And I just wanted to ask Torsten how
difficult it is right now to offer any
kind of outlook on Fed policy for next
year including that second half of next
year which includes that new Fed chair.
That's right, Jonathan, and that's
exactly why I think that the FOMC
members are really coming out with quite
strong strong voices at the moment. Lori
Logan first of all saying that she did
vote for the cut and then subsequently
saying, well, I didn't really want to
cut. And now also on Friday really
beginning to emphasize more that, well,
we still need to get inflation under
control. And well as you have of course
other FOMC members, Jim Bullard in
particular of course saying that we
should be cutting sooner rather than
later. The dots are really moving in
very opposite directions here and it's
becoming much more outspoken from the
FOMC members what exactly that their
views are because this debate, to your
point, Jonathan, is really still very
very early in particular when you have
these very strong opinions about what
are the tailwinds and what are the
headwinds at the moment.
>> Torsten, do you think this is a new era
for the Federal Reserve where we're
going to see greater dispersion, at
least publicly, from policy maker to
policy maker? And ultimately, how what
do you think the consequences are for
financial markets?
I think it is a new era because we do
get by definition of course a new Fed
chair in May of next year because that's
when Jay Powell has to step down. And
then we will of course figure out if
that Fed chair of course is going to
take the same view as Jim Bullard or if
that Fed chair is going to have the view
of Lori Logan. And if the risk is of
course that that Fed chair comes in and
then begins to say, well, interest rates
could begin to go down because maybe the
economy can handle lower rates, then of
course the fear could be that inflation
is going to be higher. So the debate
exactly to your point, Jonathan, here
around what should we put weight on,
especially on the dual mandate. Should
we put weight on inflation still being
at 3%? Should we put weight on
Challenger, Gray, and Christmas showing
that there are maybe a bit more
announced job cuts? I mean, this is
still a very very important debate and
we will not know the answers to this
before we get into January. Remember
also the non-farm payroll numbers for
November are normally collected in the
month I'm sorry, in the month of the
week of the 12th. And in the month of
November, the week of the 12th was last
week. So that means that we get closer
to Thanksgiving, that means that even
there may be some distortions on the
data for November. So that means that we
may get all the way into next year
before we really have a better handle at
how strong is the US labor market. So
that's why we still have a fairly foggy
situation for the next several months.
And this will be fun, Torsten. That's
for sure. Torsten Slok there from
Apollo. Torsten, thank you. Appreciate
it. Looking out to not just next month
but of course next year as well. I think
it's fair to say for most investors, for
most economists, they assume the
incoming Fed chair is going to be very
close to Governor Waller and maybe less
close to some of the hawks out there on
the FOMC. Which is the reason why a 50
to 75 basis point additional rate cuts
almost is baked into the market
valuation expectations for next year.
When you look at some of the
forward-looking expectations, they
almost all talk about accommodative
conditions and that's sort of code for
Fed rate cuts. I just wonder are we
looking at a Fed with a new mandate? Are
we looking at a very different Fed that
is transforming akin to a 1977 style
kind of transformation?
>> Well, they certainly weren't given a new
mandate,
were they? Well, they might be
emphasizing other parts of the charter
coming back from 1977. Just saying. Just
looking through hot inflation repeatedly
apparently. Equity futures on the S&P
this morning higher by about a third of
1%. Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Yahaira for more.
Hey, Yahaira. Hi, John.
Thousands took to the streets of Mexico
City in protests of President Claudia
Sheinbaum's administration and the
slowing economy. The pro- the protests
turned violent causing the police to
step in and regain control of the area.
Mexico City's chief of police said that
20 people were arrested and 100 officers
were injured.
Meanwhile, former Fed Governor Adriana
Kugler was found to have violated ethics
rules and was subject to an internal
probe when she stepped down back in
August. Documents released over the
weekend showed that Kugler repeatedly
broke rules over securities trading by
purchasing and selling shares of stocks
like Apple, Southwest Airlines, and
Cava.
And Jeff Bezos is back in the
entrepreneurial seat. The Amazon founder
has created an AI startup called Project
Prometheus which focuses on the
engineering and manufacturing of
computers, cars, and spacecraft. Bezos
will help manage the company as its
co-CEO. This is Jeff Bezos's first
formal role in a company since leaving
Amazon back in 2021. Can't just retire,
right? That's Bloomberg brief, John.
Yahaira, thank you. Appreciate the
update. More from Yahaira in the next
hour. Up next on the program, the
progress between the US and China.
I am confident that post our meeting in
Korea between the two leaders, the
President Trump, President Xi, that
China will honor their agreement. We We
even finished the agreement which we
hope to have done by Thanksgiving. Up
next, we'll catch up with a former White
House trade advisor, Kate Kalukowicz,
live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
There's been a shift down in Washington,
D.C. Around affordability, there's been
a shift within this White House. Think
about the policies that have emerged in
the last week or so. Tariff relief,
beef, coffee. We're talking about $2,000
and on top of all of that, attempting to
open up the mortgage market as well.
Sort of a three-pronged effort over the
last week and I expect there's more to
come. The mid-midterm elections were a
game-changer with respect to this
administration's policies and a renewed
focus. The question for a lot of people
in markets is how much do you bake in
extra fiscal stimulus in the first
quarter of next year in response to this
outcry from the population clearly in
the election results showing a real
focus on cost of living. Treasury
secretary said over the weekend, we are
not going to tell people how they should
feel. They think that the Biden
administration told people that this is
just a vibe session. Prices are not
higher. The problem is that's what the
Treasury secretary is saying. Last night
on the tarmac, the president came out
and said, "Go to Walmart. Your
Thanksgiving dinner is 25% cheaper."
Now, maybe certain Thanksgiving items
are cheaper this year, but the fact of
the matter is everyday items for kitchen
tables of American families are higher.
Bananas, beef,
coffee. And this is why they're lowering
the tariffs on some of these goods. The
Treasury secretary learned the right
lesson from the Biden administration.
Don't gaslight the public. If the
American public tell you they don't feel
good right now about the US economy,
they don't feel good right now about the
US economy. You got to do something
about it. The problem I think economists
would have right now, the amount of
credibility economists have left, I
don't know, but the problem they've got
right now is that some of the policies
on the table down in Washington, D.C.
have the potential to make the situation
worse, to put up prices, not bring them
down. The issue has to be a supply-side
response, which maybe is relieving some
of the tariff barriers and getting more
imports at the same time that really
undermines some of the trade agenda,
which goes to the heart of what the
president has been trying to do.
Ultimately, there has to be a good look
about how you can generate some sort of
stimulus for a lower-income individuals
without causing the kind of inflation
that we saw a couple years ago. Equities
this morning doing better. We're high by
about a quarter of 1% on the S&P, on the
Nasdaq 100 high by 0.4%.
Trade very much in focus under
Savannah's this morning, progress
between the US and China.
I am confident that post our meeting in
Korea between the two leaders, the
President Trump, President Xi, that
China will honor their agreement. The
magnets will flow freely as they did
before April 4th. We are going to set up
very a dashboard of very quantitative
metrics that they are going to have to
meet. We haven't even finished the
agreement which we hope to have done by
Thanksgiving. So, here's the latest this
morning. The White House expecting a
deal between the US and China will be
finalized soon. The Treasury secretary
Steve Mnuchin signaling both countries
are still negotiating details over rare
earths. Joining us now to discuss is a
former White House trade advisor, Kate
Kalukowicz. Kate, welcome back to the
program. I just want to build on what
we've been discussing around the table
just moments ago. $2,000 checks, tariff
relief, attempting to do something about
affordability in this country. Kate, how
is important is that developing backdrop
for these negotiations with China?
Well, they're they're very important for
the president's trade agenda. I mean, I
think we saw over the weekend a number
of new trade deals announced in addition
to the progress they keep trying to push
on China. All of these these deals,
these these winnings for the president
are important in the message that he's
delivering to the American people that
just stick with me, we're going to
remake the trade agenda that will be
better for the United States. We just
have to weather these bumps. This has
been the message all along. Of course, I
think his team realized that, you know,
tariffs were increasing costs on on
regular goods for everyday consumers and
particularly on things we can't produce
in the United States. And so, this
easing, I think is a a recognition that
that perhaps some of the tariffs are not
are not in our interest long-term and
it's an indication that he's willing to
consider that. Kate, what do you think
is left to really understand between
Washington and Beijing in order to ink
this agreement?
Well, you know, Annmarie, I I think we
just continue to return to the status
quo problem because China and the United
States keep failing to get leverage over
one another. We have this discussion
about rare earths it seems every time
that they that two sides get together,
indicate progress. We have progress. The
progress gets challenged by some sort of
licensing regime and we end up in the
same place. I I think we can all be
hopeful that that this is this is the
real deal this time, but I continue to
be a bit
discouraged by every time the Treasury
secretary or Trump officials signal that
they're not quite there. I think that's
because neither side is fully prepared
to to give away the leverage it has yet.
Could the US sign an agreement with
China restricting rare earths to some
companies that have ties to the US
military?
Well, I suppose anything's on the table.
China controls these rare earth metals
which are so critical to the US economy
from military to to more traditional
sectors like autos. China has kept a
stranglehold on these and restricted who
gets them through a pretty complicated
licensing regime. What the US would like
is for China to get rid of that
licensing regime altogether, of course.
But, I suspect in the in the midterm
there is a potential for some sort of um
let's say situation where certain
companies are are given priority over
others. Kate, do you have a sense of how
quickly the administration is moving to
solidify trade deals with strategically
important countries that have some of
the resources that the US would need to
be more independent from China?
Yes, I think that is absolutely a
priority for the Trump administration
because, of course, to change the
dynamic with China, they are going to
have to change this dynamic on critical
minerals. Of course, before the
president traveled to Asia, we had a
very huge deal with with Australia
around some licensing and critical
minerals deals in Australia.
Last week, the president's
administration, he announced a number of
trade deals including with Argentina,
which will be another very key ally when
it comes to accessing these critical
minerals we don't have in the United
States.
Hi, Kate. Good to hear from you. Thanks
for being here. Kate Kalukowicz there,
the former White House trade advisor
weighing in on the trade situation.
Here's a name in focus. Alibaba, this
from the Financial Times over the
weekend. A White House national security
memo claiming the Alibaba Group provided
the Chinese military with technology
support against targets in the United
States. That's a report worth taking a
look at.
>> How much is this actually something that
they found that really does highlight
the potential connection between Alibaba
and the military, which honestly, how
surprising would it be given the fact
that there clearly are national
champions in China that have pretty
intimate relationships with different
companies? At the same time, how much is
this additional leverage to try to get a
sense of just how much the US is willing
to crack down on some Chinese companies?
>> What's interesting, too, is that the
administration potentially could then
use something that would be more of a
nuclear option when it comes to Beijing
and any of these Chinese companies that
need access to the US capital markets,
potentially, they will not be able to
list anymore in the United States.
>> That's the next step. That's how this
escalates. Not saying it will escalate,
but that's how it could escalate. You
cut off access for US investors to
invest in some of these companies. If
you go there, that's a massive problem
because these companies are absolutely
humongous. Yeah, and a lot of people
want to invest in them because they want
to invest in both the Chinese tech story
as well as the US tech story because
they seem to be developing a bit more in
parallel right now.
>> We've got a lot to get through this
week. If you're just tuning in, welcome
to the program. Stocks are positive by
third of 1%. Big week of earnings coming
up including numbers from Nvidia. We'll
catch up with Sarah Hunt of Alpine Saxon
Woods, Han Red of Trajectory Partners,
Airbus executive Christian Schreyer,
plus Stephen Parker of JP Morgan Private
Bank. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
[Music]
It is hard for me to see an economy that
is not continuing to move forward in a
world where the consumer is still so
engaged. The consumer spending numbers
and the credit card data numbers have
still been robust.
>> There's just this creeping level of
inflation.
>> We do expect inflation to stay at least
above what the Fed's target is
anticipating.
>> There is enough evidence here for the
Fed to continue to cut rates, you know,
at least one more time. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Annmarie
Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 adding some
weight to last week's very painful
rally. We're up a tenth of 1% last week,
believe it or not. We're up by two
tenths this morning on the Nasdaq 100 up
by 0.4. What a week we've got in store
for you. Earnings from Nvidia, some of
the major retailers, Home Depot, Target,
Walmart, plus a very, very delayed
September payrolls report. It's all
cylinders that have really driving this
market. You have questions around the
consumer, maybe some color from Target
and Walmart and Home Depot that will
give you a sense of what's going on
there. Then when it comes to Fed rate
cuts, you get, of course, the nonfarm
payrolls report, which is, of course,
for September, not for October, let
alone November, but we also do get some
Fed speak when it comes through just all
the speeches as well as the mini meeting
minutes on Wednesday. And then of course
you have Nvidia. This question of how
far the AI boom or bubble, depending on
your perspective, can ultimately go.
>> I'm going to pick one. Let's run with
jobs. Here are the estimates right now.
Median estimate 50k, the high 75, the
low 40. Torsten Slok of Apollo on the
program about 30 minutes ago. Torsten
making a case that 50 is pretty decent.
50 is better than good. 50 is enough to
keep this Fed on hold. That was actually
something that one of the Fed regional
Fed banks talked about the idea that
because of the lack of immigration and
the lack of population growth, you need
a much lower break-even rate. What do we
do with that number? We're not getting
the unemployment rate. We're not going
to get wages until the next day. And it
raises this reaction function from the
Federal Reserve. Are they focusing on
the wrong metric at a time where they
don't have a lot of other data,
including the CPI? Torsten making a case
that we could see a re-acceleration in
early 2026. We asked the question, the
obvious one. For the politicians out
there right now, please tell me that GDP
growth comes with some jobs growth
because we've got a problem right now.
That problem is affordability. And this
White House has seen a shift develop, a
real shift develop in the last week or
so.
>> Absolutely. You can see that for how the
president speaks, how his Treasury
Secretary speaks. Scott Bessent over the
weekend saying he is not going to do
what he thought the Biden administration
did, which was tell Americans how they
are feeling right now. What's the
administration doing? They're thinking
about $2,000 dividend checks when it
comes to the tariff money coming in.
That might actually increase inflation
and become a problem. The other thing
notably this administration did when
they talk about their central policy
being tariffs, they actually lowered the
barrier when it comes to tariffs for
certain products that consumers are
saying are just too high. Coffee,
bananas, beef. Omaha Steaks CEO talking
about $10 a pound for ground beef. That
is going to be a problem heading into
the midterms.
>> The good news for the Treasury Secretary
is right now in the middle of November,
10-year bond yields are closer to four
than they are to five. Yields are down
again today by three basis points, so
let's call it 4.12. Everything we're
talking about that the White House might
be doing might be a case for higher
yields and not lower yields. And the
Treasury Secretary has probably got the
same idea, the same worry about what
could develop if we start handing out
checks for $2,000 here, there, and
everywhere.
>> Which is the reason why you've seen
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent really
kind of try to thread a needle, start
talking about, "Oh, this is money that's
already going back to people." That
didn't work. And then talking about,
"Oh, yeah, guess what? This is actually
going to need some congressional
approval, so I can't do this
single-handedly." This is clearly a
difficult thing for him to swallow based
on the balance sheet considerations as
well and some inflation.
>> Well, remember, the president comes out
with sometimes unconventional, sometimes
controversial, extreme ideas, and then
it's the Treasury Secretary's job to go
out there and soothe the market. The
market's been soothed. We're up about a
10th of 1% so far on the S&P 500. Last
week was crazy, so volatile and squeezed
out a weekly gain of 0.08% or something
like that on the S&P 500. This hour
we'll catch up with Sarah Hunt of Alpine
Saxon Words as Wall Street looks to
revive the equity market rally,
Henrietta Treyz of Vela Partners as the
White House weighs tariff dividend
checks, and Stephen Parker of JP Morgan
as AI ignites a new era for investing.
We begin this hour with Stocks and
Shinkaya ahead of key earnings from
Nvidia. Sarah Hunt of Alpine Saxon Words
writing, "Earnings estimates still seem
to be faring well, and absent any bad
news from Nvidia, markets could stay on
track for a positive end to the year."
Sarah joins us now for more. Sarah, good
morning. Good morning.
>> What are the lessons from the recent
volatility, if there are any lessons at
all?
I think that there was a whole lot of
things that were going on that created
some of that downdraft, and I think I
mean there was an earlier question about
what's the most important thing that's
coming up this week. I think it's a
question of timing. If the payrolls was
coming before Nvidia, I'd say payrolls,
but because Nvidia is coming first,
that's going to set a tone, and either
payrolls are going to help that or hurt
that. And I think that, you know, if you
get any more downdraft in technology,
it's going to be hard to rally through
the end of the year because there is
some concern there, and there's some
concerns about valuation.
>> speaking for years about the K-shaped
economy. This week's the K-shaped
market. Consumers have been struggling.
You've seen that in some of the
restaurant earnings. We're going to see
it in the retailers potentially later
this week. And then there's Nvidia. Can
we close that K anytime soon in the
equity market, never mind the economy?
It's a bit tough because people are if
the if the technology story stays on
track, people stay away from some of the
retail areas where you've seen weakness.
If there's a wobble, then people start
looking at staples. Like you saw that
downdraft day, there was some of the
stocks that were doing okay were the
more value-oriented, more
dividend-oriented, more cap like those
kind of stocks did better.
I think there's an argument to be made
that going into next year with
valuations where they are, there should
definitely be a balance in the
portfolio, and you should have some of
that because if you get volatility,
that's going to act better than some of
the technology. And I think the
volatility is just going to stay and get
moved around from data point to data
point.
>> Is Nvidia the last tech company to
actually feel the pain if AI isn't
delivering on some of the promise that
people expect? Well, it's interesting to
see the number of people who are, you
know, going publicly talking about
getting out of their Nvidia stakes. I
and I'm not sure if that's one of those
we want to move on to the next thing or
we think that's the top for Nvidia. I
think Nvidia is in a good spot in terms
of being able to keep bringing money in
because people still need these chips.
There is, to your point earlier, also a
big depreciation cycle on those chips,
so there is a round robin. It's not like
you buy it once and you don't have to
buy them again. So, I don't know that
Nvidia is going to be the problem there.
I think the issue is going to be who's
making money with those chips and how is
that return coming because that is the
big question into the next iteration of
AI.
>> This is the reason why Oracle has been
so interesting, why Open AI has been so
interesting, why the CDS spreads and how
much they've been blowing out has been
so interesting because there is a
question about whether the rank and file
company in the average economy is seeing
the monetization from some of the new AI
tools that they've been getting, and
whether that's enough to justify the
massive spending and investment. Is
anything that you're seeing seeming to
suggest that yes, we are getting to a
place where we will see massive sea
change kinds of of earnings from the
rank and file companies that could lead
to that broadening out and a
justification for AI valuations? I think
the hard thing is that to believe that
that is going to be the case in the near
term, it has to be about to some degree
productivity, which has to be about not
having as many people on the payrolls.
And that's not a great thing right now
because we don't want to see that
happen. I don't know that we are yet
understanding exactly how those tools
are going to play into a variety of
things including productivity and better
earnings except to get rid of people.
And so I think that you need to see some
some work cases where it's very clear
that this is less about getting rid of
people and more about making them more
productive. And I think that's still not
quite clear enough from the investment
side to say, "Oh, I can see this going
into this industry and that industry and
that industry." That's what people are
hoping for. I don't know that we're
there yet.
>> Lisa mentioned this earlier about how
some Fed members are talking about the
structural changes in the economy like
immigration, like these technology
changes, which is why potentially there
are shifts in the labor market. How does
the Fed address that?
That's another question that having a
whole bunch of six weeks of not having
data does not help you at all because
that is trying to figure out what the
right number is, you know, to Torsten
Slok's point, with given all the up
things that are going on is very
difficult when you don't have enough
data. You don't see weekly claims
either, which also sort of informs you
even if it's not that week, that average
of that starts to inform you. I think
that's going to be one of the things
that into 2026 if you you need to see
some earnings growth because that's
what's being built in, but you also need
to see a data market that people I mean
a labor market that people feel
comfortable with. And I think that we
just don't have enough information right
now. And that's where the timing of that
data coming in versus other things
starts to be an issue. And the faster we
get some of it, the better off we are,
but it's going to be about what's
happening now. I don't know that
September is that informative because
people were looking at the ADP numbers
for October. Two pillars coming out this
week in terms of Wall Street for Nvidia
earnings and then Main Street for when
it comes to Walmart. Could Wall Street
continue to do well if the consumer is
really struggling?
It's managed to do it so far this year,
and the consumer has been struggling for
a while, especially on the lower end. I
mean you've seen some of that
delinquencies on the lower end in auto
loans, delinquencies on the lower end in
credit cards, but not on the upper end.
That upper end spend has really been
able to carry things. Not so much for
the retail sector because as a whole,
they need more than just the upper end
except the very high luxury stuff. So,
it depends on where that goes, and
that's also where the labor market comes
into play because if you feel
comfortable that you're keeping your
job, it's easier to spend the money as
it comes in. But if you don't, that's
where people start to get a little bit
more on the saving side.
>> Things are about to get really difficult
for the American CEO. We've talked a lot
about the difference between corporate
earnings up there and employment down
here. And the space between is where all
the tension is going to play out.
They've got to be very careful about how
they talk about some of the progress and
benefits coming from this technology.
We've heard a lot of the banks talk
about how they're going to keep the
staff force, the workforce stable and
get more revenue out of every single
employee. I think they need someone, the
head of Washington affairs alongside
them, whenever they talk about this
issue because the more you talk about
greater productivity, greater
technological advancements, and fewer
people, the greater the chance of a
regulatory pushback developing down in
in Washington, D.C. And that would be a
great shame because what we've got in
America, I think the secret sauce to
this economy is fantastic labor market
flexibility compared to, say, the
Europeans. And I fear, it's my fear, I
have this worry that we're just going
down this path that just makes greater
regulation almost inevitable if this is
where corporate America wants to go. And
you're going to see some regressive
impact up front, some job losses early.
Washington's going to push back. They're
going to have no choice but to push
back.
>> Which is the reason why every single
CEO, you can listen to the earnings
calls, very few of them, except for
Amazon, which really ballooned in terms
of its staff recently, very few of them
has have actually said, "We're going to
cut jobs in response to AI." They say,
"Oh, it's increasing productivity. Oh,
potentially we could do more with just
the same the same footprint." And you
just wonder at what point that story
will change or if the rhetoric is going
to stay the same, but the numbers start
to move. Sarah, I was going to say
thanks for being here. Sarah Hunt there
of Alpine Saxon Woods PR down in
Washington. Imagine how much they're
going to have to spend on that.
Yeah, you know, what they have to spend
on it is training programs because you
can't fight a sea change and that
ultimately is what
what a lot of people are talking about.
What's the strategy? There are plenty of
jobs that are still required and so you
start to have to say, "Okay, do we need
retraining? Do we need to focus people
on different things?" These are the
questions that ought to take up more of
the oxygen in DC frankly and in Moscow.
>> Unions have been fighting technological
advancements for a long long time. Talk
to anyone down at a port in this
country. Talk to the European train
driver. We've had the technology to have
driverless trains for a long long time.
You will get the labor force to push
back and to stop certain companies and
certain industries implementing this
kind of technology. Seen it before, why
won't we see it again? The only
difference I would say, and I don't know
if this is optimism or pessimism, is the
existential overlay to this. That if you
do not keep up with this technology,
there is this existential fear that you
will become obsolete. That you will
ultimately get overrun by China or by
another power who gets better
technology. So, the only change in that
narrative would be that there is this
race, an almost arms race of technology
going on that might supersede some of
those impulses.
>> to be a tug of war.
Totally.
>> Between the technology and the regulator
over the next year and beyond. Let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg Brief.
Here's Yohara with more. Hey, Yohara.
Hi, John. Tensions are increasing
between China and Japan. China's state
media warning Beijing is prepared for
economic retaliation for Japanese Prime
Minister Sanae Takaichi's comments on
Taiwan. This after Takaichi said a
Chinese attack on Taiwan could trigger a
Japanese military response.
Meanwhile, Bitcoin has fallen has fallen
sharply after topping 126,000
last month, briefly wiping out all of
its 2025 gains before stabilizing
earlier. Bitcoin's total market value
fell by about $600 billion from an
October high with some traders citing
the four-year having cycle while others
blaming global liquidity.
And Apple is making big changes to its
iPhone strategy. Sources telling us here
at Bloomberg that the tech giant is
developing a foldable model and a new
high-end version with a hidden camera.
Apple is also ending its traditional
single fall product launch in favor of a
new biannual schedule starting in 2026,
releasing pro models in the fall and
mid-tier models in the spring. That's
your Bloomberg Brief, John. Yohara,
thank you. Appreciate it. Up next on the
program, President Trump's tariff
checks.
Is he going to be sending these direct
payments to Americans of $2,000 or more?
Uh
we we will see. We need legislation for
that and and again, uh President Trump
is all about solution. Lacy, you sent
this. This is the second consecutive
weekend that the Treasury Secretary's
had to dance around this over the
weekend.
>> Oh, beautifully done, by the way. Really
impressive. So, we need Congress for
$2,000 checks, but they don't need
Congress for IEEPA. Interesting. Up
next, Henrietta Treyz of Evercore
Partners live from New York. Good
morning.
[Music]
Check out the week ahead. Retailers in
America, look at this. Absolutely
stacked full of earnings throughout the
whole week. Some of the highlights, Home
Depot tomorrow, Wednesday Target,
Thursday Walmart. The US consumer very
much in focus, not just for Wall Street,
but for Washington DC and this White
House. Especially given how much they're
focused in cost of living. Not only cost
of living, but housing. You've got every
story for politics in this earning
season that we have coming up when it
comes to Home Depot and Lowe's. Housing
market flat on its back. Any kind of
negative reaction from those earnings
will just embolden some of the mortgage
proposals that we're hearing from
Washington DC. And then a question of
how much consumers are able to absorb
higher prices or whether they're really
pushing back. One thing though that is
going to happen this week is an
important meeting for the president.
He's going to be meeting with the Crown
Prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed bin
Salman. And when the president is
dealing with affordability, he can
continue to tap into potentially lower
gasoline prices. And there is one
country in the world that still
maintains this idea of a swing producer
that could flood the market with barrels
of oil if the president is in need. Just
got to go red headline across the
Bloomberg terminal. I'm going to share
this one with you. This one's
interesting. This comes from the
Financial Times. I'll read the lead
paragraph of the story for you. The UBS
chair, Colm Kelleher, and the US
Treasury Secretary, Scott Bessent, have
privately discussed moving the bank's
headquarters to the United States as the
Zurich-based lender explores contingency
plans to leave Switzerland if the
government does not back down on new
capital rules. That story just dropping
from the Financial Times. This seems
like the nuclear option in the ongoing
fight between UBS and the regulators in
Switzerland. Just to give you a sense of
what these proposed capital requirements
look like, it would require UBS to hold
an additional $26 billion of capital in
addition to what they already have. UBS
has called this extreme and
disproportionate and has been
speculating that they could move
elsewhere. How much is this a wonderful
way to engender some sort of
favorability in the United States at a
time when that economy is doing very
well and capital markets are robust. At
the same time, offering a threat to a
local regulators. It's kind of a perfect
storm that makes a lot of sense right
now. This is to put pressure and I just
got back from Switzerland and this is
their crown jewel. This is to put
pressure on the Swiss government to try
to lessen some of these capital
requirements so that UBS can operate in
the United States and be competitive
with the likes of JP Morgan, Bank of
America, and all the other financial
firms.
>> This is how you do it. That's exactly
how you do it. That headline just
crossed moments ago. The UBS chair
talked to Scott Bessent, the Treasury
Secretary, about moving the Swiss bank
to the United States. More on that in
about 10 minutes time. Other stuff on
this this morning, President Trump's
tariff checks.
Is he going to be sending these direct
payments to Americans of $2,000 or more?
Uh
we we will see. We need legislation for
that. And and again, uh President Trump
is all about solution. And uh every
everything is on the table. That would
be for working families. We'll have an
income limit. Those could go out. So,
here's the latest this morning. The
White House saying President Trump's
plan for $2,000 tariff dividend payments
will need congressional approval. The
Committee for a Responsible Federal
Budget estimating the proposal could
cost $600 billion or double the expected
annual tariff revenue. Bloomberg's Me
Kolsen joins us now for more. Me,
welcome back. Just how is this one going
to work?
I think that the administration is
beginning to realize that it's going to
be very difficult to allow these
dividends to occur unilaterally
unilaterally. So, they're going to need
congressional approval. Now, with that,
it's going to be very very tough sell
for Democrats on the hill and even
fiscally conservative Republicans who
have long been a thorn in Trump's side
when it comes to trying to bring down
the the debt. When they see that sticker
price of how much this could cost,
that's going to be a huge issue for the
president as well if if they move
through Capitol Hill. Me, it sounds good
and obviously people like it. We all
want our money back. We pay a lot of
taxes. But Me, is there a lesson from
the Biden administration that sometimes
there are some unintended consequences
of doing things like this?
Yeah, absolutely and I think that the
White House is extremely focused right
now on the affordability push, uh a term
that they said that Democrats made and
weaponized against them. But they're
very cognizant of uh the cost of living
impact that many Americans are facing
right now, especially ahead of the
holidays. I think that they're in a
squeeze and really trying to message and
say that, you know, they're going to
start feeling this relief as early as
next year, but we're just going to have
to see. Me Kolsen there down in
Washington DC. Thank you. Joining us
now, Henrietta Treyz of Evercore
Partners. Henrietta, that line from the
Treasury Secretary, Scott Bessent,
everything is on the table. Henrietta,
what else is on the table?
Uh I would recommend starting to take
some of these tariffs off. That's really
your first problem. It's the easiest way
to get money back to the US consumer. It
eliminates some of these taxes that
they've had to pay on uh you've already
seen it last week on coffee, on beef, on
you know, different agriculture
products, bananas. Why not expand that?
Uh I think the Supreme Court's about to
give them a really great opportunity to
do that. We have 65% odds that SCOTUS is
going to repeal the IEEPA authority.
Just let it stay lapsed. Boom, you got
an $1,800 back in the pockets of every
household in America without the tariffs
on. Uh Henrietta, when do you think we
will get that Supreme Court decision
because this may play into whether or
not the administration continues to
lower the tariffs on some agricultural
and food goods?
Yeah, Emry, that timing is so critical
and I think will be impactful to
determining whether or not the president
re-ups the tariffs later on if the
Supreme Court strikes down the IEEPA
authority. We're really optimistic that
a mid-December time horizon is
achievable from the Supreme Court. We
take that guidance from watching the
Court of International Trade and the
Court of Appeals earlier this year take
between 33 and 35 days to reach their
conclusions that the tariffs were not
permitted by the US Constitution. So,
we're hopeful that after the oral
arguments in early November, we'll get
an answer from the Supreme Court in
mid-December, but it's not a guarantee.
They do not have to announce where
they're going to land until the summer
of 2026. So, it could be a while, but we
have fingers crossed it'll come in
mid-December. When it comes to $2,000
checks and the Treasury Secretary saying
we need legislation for that. Would
Democrats sign up for that if it is for
low-income individuals as the president
has highlighted in his social media
posts?
It would have to be a really expansive
bill in order to get Democrats on board.
You have to add a lot of sweeteners just
for that conference. So, think extending
the ACA subsidies, for example, which we
just shut the government down for like
what, 43 days over?
There would have to be a lot of
sweeteners for the Democratic Party to
get them to cross the aisle. And it's
probably going to be mandatory because I
think there's no way around authorizing
a $2,000 tariff rebate check without
tacitly acknowledging that you support
the tariffs. And I'm trying to work
through that with clients right now, but
if you're going through the budget
committee and you're trying to
understand where the $600 billion in
revenue as CRFB estimated this weekend
is going to come from to provide those
tax cuts, you're going to need to
acknowledge where the revenue comes
from. Let's not pretend that Republicans
are deficit reduction advocates anymore.
I mean, they just passed a three and a
half trillion dollar deficit increasing
bill and eliminated the current policy
baseline. So, I don't think that deficit
is necessarily the problem, but the
tacit acknowledgement that tariffs are
okay and that they should continue to be
collected is probably unavoidable in
this bill in the budget committee level,
and that's why potentially Joe
Diarington announced he is going to
retire. I don't see a path forward for
the bill mostly cuz you're not going to
get those tariff votes. And wait, are we
talking about tariffs and cost of living
measures coming from the administration
because those are the most significant
market moving ramifications that could
potentially be on the horizon. The
headlines over the weekend were all
about Jeffrey Epstein and the files that
could be released. Are there any market
implications for that, or are clients
just sort of moving past that
wholeheartedly?
I I don't really talk about the Epstein
stuff with clients. It's not our
wheelhouse to me as a macro analyst, but
you can't it's definitely in the ether.
I would say the whole thing with Nick
Fuentes and the president deciding to
get around Tucker Carlson and the, you
know, angles that they're going for
there. They play a role because you
always need a distraction and a
deflection. And I think maybe the
problem for the Republican conference is
that Democrats are now associated with
the concept of affordability. And when
the top three issues are not Epstein and
and island and, you know, Fed failure or
whatever. Like that's not what American
voters are concerned about. They're
concerned about affordability, the
economy,
inflation, prices, and that's what
Democrats just won an election on by a
pretty substantial margin, 12, 13 points
in Virginia, New Jersey. That's your
problem. So, as long as you're talking
about other stuff, you're not talking
about affordability. And when you're
offering, you know, ridiculous ideas
like a 50-year mortgage, you don't you
don't have a message anywhere on
affordability. So, it always is going to
come back to these tariffs. Henry
Blodget, I appreciate your time. Thanks
for being here. Henry Blodget there
available on us. It keeps coming back to
affordability. Credit to the Treasury
secretary, Scott Morrison. The fact is
that at the moment year-to-date, 10-year
bond yield is down about 45 basis
points. The Treasury secretary's ability
to manage the message, I think has been
a major contributor to some of the
stability we're not just seeing in the
Treasury market, which is why he keeps
dancing around this issue of $2,000
checks. Up next, we'll catch up with the
Airbus Commercial Aircraft CEO. That's
just around the corner.
Stocks are doing okay, positive by 0.1%
on the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq 100 this
morning, positive by about 0.2 as we
count you down to the opening bell. 2
hours away with your money movers,
here's Danny Burger with more. Hey,
Danny. Hey, John. Alphabet continues to
be one of the big gainers in the
premarket this morning after over the
weekend, new filings from Berkshire
Hathaway show that they took an
additional stake in the company now
worth $4.9 billion.
So, that's up 4.3% for what it's worth.
Berkshire Hathaway also trimmed its
holdings in Apple and Bank of America.
Elsewhere this morning, some earnings,
quantum computing. Well, there's Nvidia.
Nvidia shares down 1.1%. There has been
a little bit of negativity. Peter Thiel,
for example, selling his stake in
Nvidia. Uh so, those shares down.
Jeffrey Gundlach also throwing some cold
water on the AI trade. Finally this
morning, wrapping things up, we also had
a little bit of take private news.
Sealed Air, those shares falling 3.3%
after it was confirmed after some
Bloomberg reporting that CD&R will be
taking the maker of bubble wrap private.
I didn't realize bubble wrap was
actually a brand name and not just
generally with the packing thing.
Anyway, the price for Sealed Air from
CD&R is just above $41. The shares had
rallied beyond it, so they're starting
to come back to that deal level, which
is $10.3 billion, John. Danny, thank
you. Thanks for the update. That stock
is down by about 3%. On our radar this
morning, a story just developing, the
UBS story picks up a notch, talking to
the White House about moving the bank's
Zurich headquarters to the United
States. Sources telling the Financial
Times that the Treasury secretary, Scott
Morrison, and the UBS chair discussed
options if Swiss officials do not back
down from new capital rules. Something
about this fairly predictable, but what
a move from the UBS chair. And how
serious is it given the fact that they
hope that the regulators will reduce
some of the capital requirements, but at
the same time, it's a convenient way to
get a greater access to the US market,
which has the been the most dynamic and
is expected to be chock-full of M&A and
other deals activity over the upcoming
12 months.
>> This all goes down to the Swiss
government basically saying that to be a
Swiss bank, you have to have an
additional $26 billion of capital that
you wouldn't have to have if you are in
the United States. So, basically what
the UBS says this is way too extreme and
we cannot compete in the US. So, what do
they do? They have some meetings with
the White House, and then potentially
this is going to force pressure on the
Swiss government to maybe lessen those
capital controls.
>> Isn't it fair to say that UBS wins
either way? 100%. Right? You know,
either they get them to back down in
Zurich and they back down and things
stay the same way, or they don't back
down and they move to the United States
and
perhaps investors like that anyway. At
the risk of editorializing, this was a
genius move. Absolutely 100% a genius
move because exactly the leverage they
have is significant given the fact that
they acquired Credit Suisse. So, they
now are the biggest by far and main
national champion of the banking
industry of Switzerland. And potentially
they get access to the US market more
considerably and they curry favor with
the Trump administration. So, pretty
much win-win-win. That story just
dropping from the Financial Times about
10 minutes ago. Let's turn to this one,
the feud between Japan and China
escalating after comments from the
Japanese prime minister suggesting Tokyo
could take military action if Beijing
attacks Taiwan. China warning it is
preparing to retaliate by imposing
sanctions and restricting trade. So,
this is going to be challenging
especially as you see Japan really
trying to walk this tightrope when it
comes to what how they speak about
Taiwan even though Japanese officials
saying nothing has changed in terms of
long-term policy on Taiwan. At the same
time, Xi Jinping just met with President
Trump, who also met with the new
Japanese prime minister talking about
the strong relationship they have. It's
becoming very tense right now with this
trade agreement given the fact that
China is talking about not allowing rare
earths to go to these companies that
have ties to the US military. And as
Kate Lukowicz said, we're basically just
churning water in this status quo
environment.
>> I remember speaking to the Malaysian
trade secretary a couple years ago or 2
years ago, and I said, "What will happen
if the US and China force you to choose
sides?" And they're like, "Oh, we hope
that doesn't happen. We hope that
doesn't happen." Right? I mean, that's
essentially what's happening, right? Is
you're seeing the US and China forcing
all of their trade partners to choose
sides. And that's what you see in cold
relief with China and Japan. And that's
what you're going to see and have seen
with other Southeast Asian countries in
particular.
>> We've been asking the Europeans that
question for a long time. And they just
carry on sitting on the fence, sitting
on the fence, and then all of a sudden
the industry starts to change. The
industry starts to turn, the pressure
starts to build on the national
champions in Europe and and Germany and
the rest of the Europeans are figuring
this out for themselves without the
pressure of the US. Yeah, although the
conclusion isn't necessarily so clear
because there was a story on Bloomberg
the other day talking about how Germany
is exporting so many vehicles into China
right now and making so much money that
they can't stop. So, it raises this
question of
are they going to be economically
incentivized to potentially reduce their
exports to China and reduce the reliance
on that revenue? And if not, well,
wither resuming normal operations today
following government-mandated flight
restrictions. The FAA and Transportation
Department say staffing levels are
getting back to normal since the end of
the shutdown last week. That's some good
news. That's good news. They're saying
they're snapped back in terms of the
staffing levels. What's critical and
important about this is obviously we are
just 2 weeks away from Thanksgiving. And
the worst thing that could happen not
just for this White House, but even
congressmen and women, senators would be
long lines at TSA, long lines at
airports, and some planes not even be
able to fly into certain airports
because of the government shutdown. Just
over 40 days at least TSA and FAA
starting to work again. I think that I
can say on behalf of all travelers,
don't make us your political football.
And that's what we heard from a lot of
different airline executives. Don't make
us the football because ultimately pick
a bit different pasture cuz ultimately
this is just a frustrating experience
for everybody.
>> Good time and Thanksgiving next week.
Sticking with us, guys, Airbus closing
in on a major deal with Fly Dubai.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
plane maker is set to win the majority
of an order from the airline.
Bloomberg's Guy Johnson joins us now
from the Dubai Air Show with a special
guest. Hey, Guy.
[Music]
Hey, John. Yeah, the sun is setting on
day one here at the Dubai Air Show.
We're waiting to hear about these big
orders. There's possibly one coming from
Fly Dubai. There's possibly one coming
from Emirates as well. We don't have
much clarity on either at this point.
Let's try and get some of that clarity
now. Christian Scherer is the CEO of
Airbus Commercial and joins me now. I'm
going to apologize in advance. There's a
French fighter just behind you, which is
making quite a lot of noise. So,
hopefully everybody will be able to
hear.
Christian, is it getting harder
to sell airplanes in this part of the
world if you are Airbus?
No, it isn't. The
we're very successful around the world
including in this region.
Uh
it's true that our backlog extends so
far forward that it is getting a little
bit more difficult to convince customers
to to buy airplanes 10 years in advance,
but no, I wouldn't differentiate this
part of the world from any other. So,
President Trump who has had a meaningful
impact in terms of sales of your
competitor in this region in the last
year is not having an effect at this
point.
It is having an effect on the number of
orders that our competitor is uh
is uh benefiting from, but it doesn't
change the path the successful path of
Airbus selling airplanes around the
world.
>> have to work harder though because of
that factor? Do you have to be more
competitive? Do you have to be more
price competitive, more efficient,
whatever it is to to overcome that?
That's an interesting point. What I'm
telling myself and my colleagues is,
well, in in the face of these forces, we
just have to continue to be better, to
be more innovative, to respond to our
customers' needs, and yeah, but that's a
healthy thing.
>> is making a difference.
In terms of volume
>> Yes, in terms of sales. In terms of
volumes, yes, but it does not change the
fact that Airbus is nearing 9,000
aircraft on backlog and is serving our
customers very very well and we're quite
successful in the market. Is he the
biggest problem or is or you having
actually is your is your Achilles heel
Rolls-Royce engines at the moment in
this region? Uh your aircraft might be
good, but are the Rolls-Royce engines
holding you back?
I wouldn't call it an Achilles heel,
quite on the contrary, we're very very
happy with the engines that equip our
aircraft, be it the Trent 7000 on the
330 and then the Trent 84K and 97K as we
refer to them on the A350. Very very
good engines. Uh we have indeed an
engine uh improvement program that is
coming live now very very soon on the
97K that's going to make the engine even
better in the challenging environment,
for example, in the Middle Enough to
make Tim Clark over at Emirates want to
buy the airplane? Well, that's a
question you have to address to Tim. Uh
but we've listening to him, to other
customers, the engine is uh being
improved and Rolls-Royce is uh about to
verify the testing on the engine. We're
very hopeful it'll be a great engine. It
already is around the world. It will be
for this region.
>> This is this is a tougher operating
environment for that engine to to work
in. So, I guess there are there are
different requirements for it. It does
though just if you're if you'll bear
with me for just a moment. Two years ago
we were here and we were waiting for a
big order from Sir Tim Clark at Emirates
for uh an A350-1000.
I'm having slight deja vu
this time around 2 years later. Are you
having deja vu as well? No, no, no, uh
Guy. I I appreciate you're asking the
question here at an air show, but air
shows regrettably don't just yet dictate
engineering work and uh the laws of
physics. We'll be ready when we're
ready. It's just around the corner. The
engine works really really well
including in this region, and then Sir
Tim can make his decision
uh once he can verify that the engine
has been upgraded to his Are there
regions Are there regions now where
Airbus has an advantage and Airbus has
an advantage? Is it I this is a tougher
region, but maybe China is an easier
region. Does one offset the other? No,
no, I wouldn't say so. You know, Guy,
our company has won 2/3 of all
competitive wide-body decisions in the
last 3 4 years. So, I wouldn't
differentiate one region from another.
That that would be inappropriate. You've
also done you are dominant in this
region on narrow-bodies as well.
Flydubai has traditionally been a 737
customer. Are we about to see you
breaking that monopoly? Is it about to
become a mixed fleet operator do you
think Flydubai? Well, we'll we'll see
what surprises air shows bring, Yeah.
but I wouldn't say we're dominant, we're
quite successful, Yeah. and as it as we
should be with a more modern higher
technology uh aircraft, but it is an air
show. Air shows are made of surprises.
Let's see, it's only day one. Okay.
It is with great regret that I say this
next, but you are about to step down
um as the CEO of of Airbus Commercial.
Do you think you took advantage enough
of the opportunity that a weakened
Boeing
represented in this phase? Could you
have done more? If if if I'm an Airbus
shareholder, would I expected
Airbus to have delivered more
performance during this phase? Or was
that just not possible?
I don't like the words taking advantage
>> the wrong word to use. of somebody's
weaknesses. What would you use? What
words would you use? So, I would say
that we were constrained not so much by
what may have happened or not happened
or the mistakes of our competitor. We're
constrained by a supply chain, by an
ecosystem that has suffered the worst
crisis in modern times, the pandemic.
And for this ecosystem with thousands of
suppliers to reorganize ourselves, to
recapitalize itself, that's the real
challenge. That's what's been the brakes
on our ramp up if you like in the in the
recent past much more so than the trials
and tribulations of this or that
competitor.
>> Is your success going to have to make
some tough decisions do you think? I
there are big tough decisions
potentially coming up. One of them could
have reared its head today. I again, Tim
Clark over at Emirates
uh placing an order for triple 7 what
looked like a dash 10, and I'd never
heard of a dash 10 before, but I'm
assuming that that is the next iteration
of this aircraft that you might have to
match. Are we going to have to have an
A350 not 1000, but maybe 1100 fairly
soon do you think? Um I wouldn't call
that a tough decision, that's an
exciting decision.
>> Okay.
Are you looking at it? What is true that
the market, our customers, just like
they did on the freighter, are telling
us, "Guys, you have a really good
platform with the A350. Where where
technology matters most on these ultra
long ranges
where the weight of the aircraft and the
fuel burn efficiency of the airplane
matters most, you have the A350,
and you're opposing it to an aircraft
that is arguably of much later much
older generation. Use that platform."
So, we're looking at that. Christian
Scherer, catch up. Always a pleasure.
Thank you so much for your time today.
Christian Scherer, the CEO of Airbus
Commercial from day one of the Dubai Air
Show. We're excited about day two to see
what that's going to bring. Team
surveillance, I'll hand it back to you.
That whole experience was very Guy
Johnson, wasn't it? Guy Johnson in Dubai
with the planes behind him and the noise
of a French fighter jet over the top of
the interview. With with the with the
sunglasses and very kind of James Bond
new technologies. Guy, great job. We'll
have more from Guy throughout the week
on Bloomberg TV and on Bloomberg Radio
from the Dubai Air Show. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg Brief.
Here's Yohara with more. Hi, Yohara. Hi,
John. UBS is considering moving its
headquarters from Switzerland to the US.
The Financial Times reporting that UBS
chair and Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessent discussed the move amid
long-standing issues over strict Swiss
capital rules. The report says the Trump
administration is receptive to welcoming
one of Switzerland's most prized assets.
Meanwhile, the UN Security Council is
set to vote on a Gaza plan that
anticipates Palestinian statehood with a
multinational stabilization force to
demilitarize Gaza. It's meant to build
upon President Trump's peace plan.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu striking back striking back
valuing no Palestinian statehood and
that Hamas will be disarmed by force if
if necessary.
And Peter Thiel's hedge fund sold off
all of its Nvidia stake in the third
quarter. The move comes shortly after it
was revealed SoftBank also sold its
Nvidia stake back in October according
to a 13F filing. The Thiel Macro Fund
now counts Apple, Microsoft, and a new
stake in Tesla as its main bets. That's
your Bloomberg Brief, John. Yohara,
thank you. The hits keep coming for that
major tech name. The earnings drop is
coming on Wednesday after the close. Up
next on the program, the era of AI.
We are in the midst of a major
technological transformation.
>> AI is going to be important someday.
It's just going to take a while.
>> Right now we're underestimating all of
this. Up next we'll catch up with
Stephen Parker of JP Morgan Private Bank
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
UBS, that stock unchanged this morning.
This story though from the Financial
Times is getting everyone's attention.
The chair, Colm Kelleher, and the US
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent have
privately discussed moving the bank's
headquarters to the United States as the
Zurich-based lender explores contingency
plans to leave Switzerland if the
government does not back down on new
capital rules. Those words coming from
the Financial Times this morning. Taking
the nuclear option at a time when they
could potentially be
forced to pony up $26 billion in
additional capital to put aside. A
question of how UBS is going to play
their hand, well, they just gave a sense
of exactly how they're going to do it.
>> We'll pick up on that story later on
this morning. For the broader market,
equity futures on the S&P just about
positive rolling over in the last hour
or so. We're just about positive by 10th
of 1% on the Nasdaq 100. And as
surveillance this morning, the era of
AI.
We are in the midst of a major
technological transformation.
>> AI is going to be important someday.
It's just going to take a while.
>> The minute we don't see earnings
supportive, that's when I think you'll
see it all flip.
>> Demand for AI is is very strong. Every,
you know, Fortune 500 company, every
enterprise has their own AI strategy.
>> Right now, we're underestimating all of
this. So, here's the latest this
morning. Profitability of the AI
narrative whipsawing tech stocks as
valuation concerns rise. JP Morgan's
2026 global investments outlook
remaining bullish, writing artificial
intelligence remains the defining force
in financial markets. Stephen Parker,
the co-head of global investment
strategy at JP Morgan Private Bank,
joins us now for more. Stephen, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> to see you. Should we talk about the
three bogeymen? Let's do. Are the
capacity, leverage, valuations, your
words. How concerned should we be into
next year? Yeah, look, we think that
there's still a long way to run in this
this AI trade. Um, if you look back
since the launch of chat GPT, 75% of the
returns, 80% of the earnings, and 90% of
the capital spending growth of the S&P
has been driven by AI-related companies.
And so, the question now is, are we
facing a bubble? And as you said, it's
really those three factors. It's
overcapacity, it's leverage in the
system, and it's valuations that we need
to focus on. And we think that we're
still in the early stages of this story.
How much do you think that the extra
additions of these the story, the extra
chapters, really will come from a Fed
rate policy or fiscal policy or some
sort of more accommodative backdrop that
can allow valuations to get even more
heady? Yeah, look, I think we're in a
world where there is still a lot of
capital that is looking for a home.
Investors are willing to make
investments, but importantly, what we're
seeing now is that these investments in
AI don't look speculative like bubbles
of the past. If you go back to the the
dot-com era, you know, in the the late
'90s, there was 40 million miles of
fiber that were laid to help support the
internet. And by mid-2001, only about 1%
of that was being used. It was supply in
search of demand. AI, the story is
reversed. The vacancy rates in data
centers today is at an all-time low, 1
and 1/2% and 3/4 of the demand for new
construction in data centers is already
pre-leased. So, we're not seeing those
signs of speculation, particularly from
a capacity perspective, that gets us
nervous. So, your base case for next
year is 7,200
in the S&P 500. Your bull case is 8,000
to 8,200. What makes you either
constructive or uber bullish? Yeah, I
think it all comes down to earnings. And
we've seen a tremendous run of
successful earnings results. Five of the
last six quarters, we've seen
double-digit S&P earnings growth,
despite the fact that we've had policy
uncertainty, economic uncertainty, trade
uncertainty. There's perhaps never been
a bigger disconnect between the stock
market, particularly large-cap stocks,
and the broader economy. We think that
continues, and we see another year of
double-digit earnings growth, which is
going to support that upside that you
talked about.
>> How do you think about all of this in an
age when globalization is out of
fashion? Yeah, I mean, we're launching
today our new 2026 market outlook,
Promise and Pressure. And one of the key
themes is this idea of global
fragmentation. So, post-the-Cold War, we
were in a multi-decade period where it
was all about globalization, cost
control, efficient supply chains. That
kept inflation down, it kept margins up.
Increasingly over the last couple of
years as we as a result of the pandemic,
conflict in Europe, trade policy, we're
now in a world where countries are
looking in. They're more focused on
security and reliability both in terms
of defense, but also of supply chains
and infrastructure. And that has
ramifications. US versus China. That's
what this feels like. Where does Europe
fit in in the US versus China? So,
Europe is is an interesting, you know,
sort of pivot point in the the global
landscape. You know, when we look this
year, the announcements that we saw out
of Germany in terms of the shift in
fiscal spend, the willingness to
embrace,
you know, positive fiscal impetus is is
a huge change. You know, one of the key
themes when we talk about this idea of
increasing fragmentation and a focus on
security is what's going on in Europe as
it relates to the spending on their
infrastructure and their defense. We
think that's both an important macro
trend, but also an investable
opportunity.
>> I think people have the sense they know
how to play the US story if they want to
play it. I think they feel comfortable
playing the China story if they want to
play it. After the first half of this
year, I think they're sitting here
looking at Europe into '26 and thinking,
well, maybe that was the trade. That was
just sort of like last year, and now
we're done with it, and we should move
on to other things. What is the trade in
'26?
>> we still think there's opportunities in
Europe. One, you know, a lot of the
fiscal policy that was announced this
year isn't actually going to be put into
place until next year. So, there is a
growth dynamic there. And in fact, we
think from an economic perspective,
we're probably going to see a
convergence, meaning that a smaller
discount of growth in places like
Germany versus the US. But when you
think about how you want to play the
story, we continue to think that the
European defense names are probably the
most, you know, the most interesting
opportunity that we're seeing. Based on
the framework that you just laid out,
how are you looking at diversification?
Is it from a regional basis or is it
from an asset class basis? Yeah, so, we
talked about the outlook, we talked
about AI, we talked about increasing
global fragmentation. The third theme
that we think is really going to drive
markets in the years to come is
inflation. And and these factors that we
talked about, increasing fragmentation,
increasing fiscal policy, means that
inflation is likely to be more volatile,
and the floor is likely to be higher.
And so, when you think about building
portfolios, the playbook of the past has
to evolve. Stocks and bonds on their own
are not going to be enough. Stocks can
help you when you get recession fears
and growth scares, but increasingly in a
world where inflation is going to be
part of the narrative, you need to look
at things like infrastructure, real
assets, and gold, not just on a tactical
basis, but on a more strategic basis.
>> So, sticking with the gold trade, even
after the big boom over the last year.
We are. We we continue to see upside. We
think we can get over $5,000 an ounce on
gold. And that has to do a lot both with
some of these concerns around
geopolitical issues, the concerns around
the dollar, but most importantly, and
from a, you know, from a sticky
perspective, you know, central banks
around the world are continuing to
realize that they need to diversify. And
a of these central banks are are still
under-exposed to the long-term targets
that they're trying to achieve, which
means more demand in a
supply-constrained world. Stephen, good
to see you. Thanks for being here. Thank
you very much. Stephen Parker there of
JP Morgan Private Bank. What a year
gold's had. And Stephen Parker talking
up another big year ahead. Yeah, and
he's not alone. You actually see Morgan
Stanley saying the same thing. China
buying secretly, much they're reporting
much less than they're actually buying.
Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Jonathan Golub of Seaport Global,
Alex Strattan of Morgan Stanley, Abigail
Watt of UPS, and Ben Reitzes of Melius
Research. From New York City, the third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance is up
next.
[Music]
You do have almost an equal set of
headwind and tailwinds for the equity
market, but things got out a little bit
over their skis here. They got a little
white-hot.
>> There's probably some room to see more
pullback.
>> lot of warning signs. There's a lot of
froth in the system.
>> These pullbacks and corrections won't
turn into something more nefarious. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Anne Marie
Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like they're
secretary futures on the S&P just about
positive by not even a 10th of 1% on the
Nasdaq, higher by 0.14.
A massive week ahead, stacked full of
earnings from retail America, including
Home Depot, Target, and Nvidia. Nvidia
going to be the major one for Big Tech.
Big Tech is going to be focused on this
name right here on Wednesday after the
close. A lot of weight on the shoulders
of Jensen Huang. Just how insatiable is
the demand for some of their chips? The
idea of the hyperscalers feeling like
they can't invest enough, and they can't
spend enough on exactly what they're
going to do. To me, this could be the
linchpin for the trade heading into
year-end. If they confirm the kind of
double-digit growth that we've seen from
Nvidia, do we see new tailwind into the
AI trade even amid all of the bubble
fears?
>> What is this story built on? The strong
balance sheets of the hyperscalers, the
Microsofts of this world, or on the
promise of Open AI on not major
revenues, promising some big big
spending over the next decade? I think
it's a great question. Another way of
asking the same thing is, how much is
Nvidia's bet? The idea of practical
efficiencies that companies are
currently getting, and how much is it
hinged on the idea of a revolutionary
technology that transforms the way we
engage with the world that we haven't
yet seen? Is that sort of the bet that
people are hinging Nvidia on, or is it a
very kind of banal, you know, trying to
make sure that you get the numbers more
quickly and be able to do recipes more
efficiently in different circumstances?
>> be bigger than that, Brenda.
>> Well, that's exactly what it's actually
doing right now. I mean, that's exactly
That's the point though, right? How much
is it sort of the sea change in how we
experience the world around us and
humanity? Nvidia is down by 1% in the
pre-market. More on that in just a
moment. Retailers in America I talked
about then, Target, Home Depot, Walmart,
they report this week. The consumer in
focus as well down in Washington, D.C.
We get a payrolls report Thursday for
September. I know, it's been a long,
long time. The estimate in our survey so
far, 50K. Finally though, we get some
data. It has been a desert when it comes
to the data, which is why the payroll
payroll report is really important. Of
course, to be determined when we're
going to actually get the November
payrolls report. Can they get the job
done in time for the first week of
December? A lot of these questions now
going into the next Fed meeting,
especially when it comes to the health
of consumer, which is why for me
actually Walmart, Target, Home Depot the
most important data point of the week.
Not just for what's going on in
financial markets, but what it means for
this White House.
>> sensing some building pressure over the
last week?
Absolutely. Uh pressure on this White
House? Absolutely. When it comes to
things like beef, bananas, coffee. Why
do you think Trump himself came out with
this executive order lowering the tariff
rates on more than 100 food items
because there is concern about this idea
of affordability. And then on top of it
throwing in this idea of $2,000 checks
for those on the lower incomes of United
States.
>> The president sitting in the Oval Office
in the last week uttering these words,
"Make America affordable again." I think
they get the message loud and clear.
Yeah, well, why do you think Walmart
highlighted the fact that a Thanksgiving
dinner was so much cheaper this year
than last year? They're saying to the
president, "Here, look, we're part of
the solution, not the problem." How much
does the rhetoric match we see in the
earnings? And that's what I want to see.
How much are prices actually going down
versus select prices? Maybe the turkey
is lower, but maybe you're seeing your
sneakers you know 10% higher.
>> Beef's going to be 10% You know, how
much do you see this sort of select
items? And that's what I'm very curious
about from some of these weeks.
>> consumer is not tracking CPI. We haven't
had CPI. Does it matter? They're not
tracking that. We had a massive price
level adjustment in the pandemic and
nothing's come down since. I'd say
nothing. I'm talking loosely, but you
know what I'm getting at. Inflation
doesn't matter. The month-on-month
inflation rate, that's not what this is
about. It's about the squeeze that
people have felt over the last 5 years
and they're not seeing the offset in the
labor market.
>> the confidence that the squeeze is over,
right? How much do you get the sense
that prices aren't going to rise that
much more? My son came to me and he said
the Egg McMuffin challenge. And it's not
necessarily the McDonald's one, but his
a bacon, egg, and cheese sandwich that
he would get in the morning. He said it
was a moving target in terms of how much
he paid for it for a number of years.
It's gotten more stable. That's the kind
of thing people are looking for.
>> find Mom Donny? Don't answer that.
Coming up on the program, Jonathan Golub
of Seaport Global too young. As markets
look to bounce back, Abigail WBS as the
Fed emerges from the data hate and Ben
writes us of Melius Research with all
eyes on Nvidia earnings. We begin this
hour with stocks little changed.
Jonathan Golub of Seaport Global seeing
the S&P 500 hitting 7,800 by the end of
'26. He writes this, "Investors are
concerned over elevated multiples.
Market multiples are elevated because of
a mix shift towards tech, not because
individual stock valuations are
problematic." Jonathan joins us now for
more. John, good morning. Good morning.
We've been talking about the lessons of
the last week. Volatile week for big
tech. What were the lessons for you?
Well, the the most important lessons is
we don't have an earnings problem and
people are concerned about some of the
issues that Lisa was talking about like
what's the ultimate use case, but people
are buying into this idea just like you
said that there is a new thing and it's
not about spending by the hyperscalers.
It's about that this is going to change
the way that we do all kinds of things.
And it's not about open AI being a an
enhanced Google search. It's literally
about us being able to do things that we
weren't able to do uh before. The first
wave of this is going to be in cost
savings by companies that can
um eliminate certain positions and and
save money. But then they're going to be
things that companies can do that they
just didn't have the ability to ever do
without these technologies.
>> Jonathan, you know why people are
nervous. To build on some of the things
that Lisa was talking about, but also
you mentioned open AI. Open AI's got
these massive, massive spending promises
over the next 5 years or so. And the
revenues don't seem to back it up right
now. Now that could change over the next
5 years. I get that, but there is a
sense in the market that maybe we've
taken things too far. And Lisa and I
were talking about this. What are we
actually building this story on? The
balance sheets of the hyperscalers, the
bigger cap tech names in America on the
S&P 500 or the promise of open AI and
the ecosystem that they've built up?
>> Yeah, I I think the key is that this is
not I mean if you're looking at if we
invest in the S&P 500, um you're in in
if you look at the tech sector, it grew
earnings 28%
versus last year. I don't care what the
promise is. It grew earnings 28%. If you
look at the forward expectations on the
S&P, it's up massively compared to what
it where it was 3 months ago, 6 months
ago, and and a year ago. In tech stocks,
the expectations are going vertical.
What it really means is that Wall Street
analysts and investors keep
underestimating
the earnings potential. So, we could
talk about the promise, but we're this
is not a story where stock multiples go
up like crazy. And even people who are
talking about valuations being high,
the valuations I think on eight of the
top 10 tech names are lower now than
they were a couple years ago.
>> is good enough, never mind the promise.
I listen, I would I would love for
the promise is all about will we be able
to keep double-digit growth rates, but
you and I know that that's that's a
really hard one to keep over the long
run. But right now these companies are
delivering, you know, beautifully. The
problem is the rest of the market is is
not it doesn't look nearly as robust.
Just to put this in an analogy form,
it's like a rocket ship, right? And
you've got the hyperscalers, you've got
the semiconductors all sort of pouring
fuel into the rocket hoping that it gets
out of the atmosphere and then it can go
on its own volition without all of that
ammunition, all that investment, etc.
When do you need to see that it's
getting to outer space? You know, I
thought the most important thing that we
heard this earnings season was when
Jamie Dimon made the comment that they
already, you know, profitable on their
AI investments. That that that that the
turnaround to these things, you know,
becoming profitable was was already
here. That this is not a a decade-long
promise, but these are things that can
can save money and help companies become
more efficient right away. So, yes, we
need to ultimately have real companies
deliver profitability. Um but I think
the cycle in this is going to be much
shorter than people think. It is so the
uptake on these of this technology is so
fast. I mean I see with my own team. The
things where it's not that we're it's
not that we're saving money and we'll
have a smaller team. We're doing things
that we couldn't have imagined doing 18
months ago. Like what?
We're we're customizing research for
individual like So, let's say for
example, we're doing work on corporate
profits. We can go and say, "Tell me
about your portfolio." We'll analyze
profits only from your own perspective.
And we could do that for hundreds of
clients. We couldn't do that before. So,
how much do you have to bet on a
broadening out in equity performance if
you have faith that the AI story is
real? In other words, do you have faith
that other companies are going to
actually see some sort of delivery on
their investments in a comprehensive way
that allows them to outpace everybody
else?
>> let's step back cuz we're just talking
about technology. Financials grew their
earnings I think 24%
year over year. Now, what what's the
backdrop there? A more favorable anti
trust environment where, you know,
activity at the banks has been super
strong, M&A activity strong, lending
activity is strong.
Um that's a a really big chunky part of
the market. Now, what was less strong is
the old economy stuff, you know,
traditional industrials, energy
materials, and defensive sectors
struggled. And so, the the I think the
question isn't will the market be
healthy, but will remain bifurcated. And
I think that for now, yeah, I think it's
going to remain bifurcated.
>> Last night the Anthropic CEO was on 60
Minutes and talk about talked about
without intervention it's hard to
imagine there won't be some significant
job impact here when it comes to AI and
faster than they've seen in any other
previous technological advances. How big
of a job impact do you think this is
going to be in terms of losses? You
know, it it's hard to know in things
moving faster now than they were in the
past, but if you if you went back to the
Industrial Revolution, people were
talking about how terrible it was that
we were moving people into factories off
the farm because we could have all these
job losses. And what did we learn to do?
We put people into other innovative jobs
and society move forward. Um so, over
the long run, these disruptions are all
good. They will they will enhance our
our our lives and they will make these
companies more profitable. But this if
it's moving if it's moving so much
faster than it has in other similar
periods, um it's we're going to have to
focus on, you know, making sure that
people remain employed. But by the way,
the unemployment rate is low. I mean
you're talking about before. We have we
have a 4.3 unemployment rate. So, we
don't have an employment problem. I'll
tell you where it's moving to right now,
the debt market. Amazon, this news just
crossed on the Bloomberg terminal
moments ago kicking off a six-part US
dollar high-grade bond sale. We've seen
it from Meta. We've seen it from
Alphabet. Amazon joins the party this
morning.
>> Yeah, and it's somewhat predictable.
Robert Schiffman of Bloomberg
Intelligence actually put out a note
over the weekend that said Amazon could
skip the tech debt party, but an
appearance makes sense because
ultimately they're getting rewarded for
doing so. You have seen tens of billions
of dollars of debt sales since September
alone from these tech giants. And you're
just starting to see some pushback a
little bit around the margins, but for
the most part investors in the debt
space want the income and they see these
behemoths as very able to pay given the
fact that they do have so much cash
coming in.
>> These companies, Jonathan, are changing.
You're familiar with that. You know
that. It used to be a capital return
story, very cash rich, very asset light.
Feels like that's pivoting. What does
that mean for the valuations of these
companies? Well, it's you raise a good
point because if you look at let's let's
let's talk about margins. Um the
net income margin, the EBIT margin on
these companies are skyrocketing.
The cash flow margins are deteriorating
of the companies. And if you think about
what they're worth, what we we know is
over the long run, you pay for cash
flows, not for earnings. If there's a
single question that that that the smart
investors we're talking to are are are
focused on is you know, are these cash
are you know, is this cash flow issue
going to become a problem? And if
something goes wrong, that's going to be
the issue, not whether they simply hit
the top line.
>> We've seen some convulsions in the
credit market already. Do you think it's
too early to draw conclusions on where
we are? You know, I I'm like obsessed
with high yield spreads. They're wider
by a a baby amount. Still sat at 300.
Yeah, and and so and I think that part
of the reason the market is off by a
couple of percent in the last few weeks
is because spreads are up. But we're not
seeing um a wide you know, a wide set of
you know, defaults and delinquencies and
bankruptcies. We're not seeing anything,
you know, we're all you know, fretting
over it and maybe we'll be right, but if
we're but we may be very very early in
terms of how much concern we're putting
on it. Jonathan, it's good to see you.
Bullish for next year. Thank you, sir.
Jonathan Golub of that C port. I'm
looking at Amazon six part offering the
longest the longest portion of that six
part offering. I can see some 40-year
debt out there for you, Lisa. Oh my god.
I I'm looking at this 40-year debt from
this. You've got the 50-year debt that
we saw just a a bit ago coming I believe
out of meta, right? That they had a
50-year bond. Alphabet.
>> I can't remember. I wasn't remembering.
So Alphabet's 50-year, we've got Amazon
40-year. What are these companies going
to look like? Are we even going to have
humans doing anything in 40 or 50 years?
Are we all going to be just you know,
sitting there and having people having
robots fan us while we eat dates?
>> I've got no idea what we're doing Oh,
nice.
I mean, I'm just trying I hope that's
what the future looks like. I know.
That's a very optimistic take. On the
beach somewhere with robots taking care
of us.
I don't think that's what it's going to
look like.
>> it actually could be really helpful
especially if you know, we're older and
need taking care of. I think that the
robots could be very good caretakers.
>> Sounds like a conversation for a
commercial break, not live TV. We'll do
more of that in a moment. All right.
Amazon up in the premarket by 0.4%.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahaira. Hi Yahaira. Hi John.
President Trump is reversing course
telling House Republicans they should
vote to require the Justice Department
to release its files on Jeffrey Epstein.
Trump has been under increasing pressure
from some within his own party to
release the investigative materials on
the convicted sex offender. The House is
scheduled to vote tomorrow.
Meanwhile, trade tensions rising with
the European Union. People familiar with
the matter telling Bloomberg EU's trade
chief will raise the issue of higher
steel and aluminum tariffs with Commerce
Secretary Howard Lutnick next week.
European officials are concerned the
moves may cut against the spirit of the
trade agreement signed between the two
sides earlier this summer.
And in sports, the Denver Broncos won
their eighth straight game after beating
Patrick Mahomes and the Chiefs at home.
The Philadelphia Eagles and LA Rams both
improved to eight and two after strong
defensive performances. Elsewhere, the
Baltimore Ravens won their fourth
straight game to move into second in the
division behind the Pittsburgh Steelers.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yahaira, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next the Morning Calls plus Alex Strata
of Morgan Stanley with a busy week of
retail earnings on deck. That
conversation up next. Live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
I do expect that once we look into next
year, we have still relatively easy
financial conditions with of course the
stock market with some wobbles more
recently, but still very supportive. The
market is still negative on the economic
outlook and the risks are actually
rising that we may have some
re-acceleration once we get into 2026.
Interesting call from Torsten Slok of
Apollo there a little bit earlier on in
the program about a re-acceleration in
2026. A call that they said Louis Fed
president has also endorsed. That's his
worry that things pick up just as they
begin to continue cutting interest
rates. That's why he's pushing back at
the moment. If you're pushing back,
you're looking for an equity market
that's a little bit higher. Not this
morning. Just about unchanged on the S&P
500 on the Nasdaq as well. Amazon in
focus in the tech world today. Moments
ago this headline. Amazon kicking off a
six part US dollar high grade bond sale.
The longest piece of that six part
offering, 40 years. Ultimately, it is
cheaper for these companies to borrow in
the debt market than to raise money
through the equity market and they want
to raise enough money that they can be
competitive in this huge arms race to
get enough data center capabilities to
be the leaders. Amazon AWS trying to
remain in the front seat here and it
highlights how the debt market is
facilitates facilitating the next phase
of this build out. That to me highlights
just how much and how ambitious some of
these tech companies really are.
>> We discussed selective convulsions in
the credit market.
>> Great phrase. Amazon doesn't come to
market often. I think it's been three
years since they tapped the debt market.
In fact, our story points out bringing
the first investment grade bond sale in
three years. That's Amazon. Not
everyone's got the balance sheet of
these hyper scalers that we've been
talking about more recently. The
Alphabets of this world. Not everyone's
got the balance sheet of a meta say.
It's the smaller companies, the more
highly leveraged companies that you've
been pointing out that are a little bit
more problematic. And that are getting
real pushback from credit markets. The
like of likes of Amazon is getting a
warm welcome and I'm sure that people
will eat this up because ultimately they
are a high grade issuer that has plenty
of money to potentially fund whatever
they need to do. It just raises a
question. Is this the tip of the spear?
Is there a lot of other financing going
on in other capacities? And the best of
the brightest are tapping the public
corporate debt market. What else is
going on and how far can it go? The
premarket story for Amazon were higher
by 0.6%. That's the price action. Let's
get you some Morning Calls. First up
Morgan Stanley cutting down to
underweight alongside a number of
hardware makers saying if memory super
cycle increasingly poses a risk to
hardware manufacturers. Next up, JP
Morgan raising its price target on Dell
to 170 expecting near-term revenue and
earnings positivity from AI leveraged
companies. And finally, Barclays
upgrading Gap to overweight ahead of
earnings this week believing the company
is executing a strategy for long-term
recovery. That stock is higher by more
than 3%. Let's stick with retail. A big
week of earnings on deck including Home
Depot, Target and Walmart. Alex Strata
of Morgan Stanley saying we expect
another quarter of sales led third
quarter EPS beats albeit with less
upside surprise. Alex joins us now for
more. Alex, welcome to the program.
Three big retailers this week. A bunch
of others as well. What are you and the
team focused on?
Sure. So I think bigger picture you hit
on our our overall view which is that I
I kind of sum it up as the headlines
will be better than what's actually
going on with the underlying
fundamentals and how we see the stock
reactions playing out and we take that
view for a couple reasons. One is just
yes, we are expecting as he pointed out
another quarter of sales led EPS
outperformance, but at the same time
we're not projecting as as large of
outperformance as we've seen in the last
few quarters and you're actually going
to have profitability eroding quarter
over quarter as tariffs start to work
their way into the P&L. So that's the
positive headline and then the given
take to it.
And then secondly, another positive
headline is third quarter outperformance
should enable some of these businesses
and most of them in fact to reiterate or
raise, but to me those will mostly be
flow throughs of the third quarter
upside which means fourth quarter is
unchanged to worse and mostly being set
below
um consensus. So all in all, what you
have is sentiment that's been fairly
negative on the on the the group um in
recent months and might continue to be
that way um through year end with that
dynamic. So expecting third quarter
mostly be neutral to negative um
catalyst across our group. Alex, parsing
through what you just said, it sounds
like you expect to see some pass through
when it comes to inflation to consumers
and them absorbing some, but the
companies are absorbing even more on the
margins. Is that the ultimate takeaway
that you're expecting to see from these
earnings?
Sure. So I think from a pricing
perspective, we've seen a little bit
taken so far post liberation day.
Nothing out of the norm of what what's
within um historical levels. So for
apparel, that's about low single digit
price increases. For footwear, that's
about mid single digit. We we haven't
seen our businesses necessarily surpass
that yet. Um and what really the biggest
headline on tariffs has been and how
they're managing it with the consumer
for the last two quarters has been
better than feared. They're finding ways
as time moves onward to offset the
incremental cost. That doesn't mean
there's not an impact. Uh profitability
has certainly compressed into the back
half of this year and will continue to
do so next year.
Um but we haven't seen the majority of
price increases I think that we might
see happen and to me that will most
likely happen either this month um for
my like a retail type business models or
next year for the wholesaler type
business models. Alex, is Walmart still
representative of the consumer and the
health of the US economy?
I think Walmart is certainly a
bellwether in the space that we look to
outside of our traditional apparel and
footwear coverage to understand how the
consumer might be pressured or behaving
in other categories. So I think you
know, certainly still a bellwether. For
me, I like to watch it in the context of
the off-pricers which I do cover who
have that value orientation as well.
Alex, you said that we potentially are
going to see very shortly higher prices
because of tariffs. So what happens if
the Supreme Court strikes down IEEPA?
Sure. I get this question quite a bit.
Um the implications of IEEPA and it
sounds like if you were to take the
Morgan Stanley US public policy view on
this is that there's very many other
kind of actions he could use to continue
to keep some form of tariff in place.
So, the way I view it is it might be an
initial pop for our group on this idea
of there could be refunds that quickly
shifts as we learn either the degree of
uncertainty that comes with it or that
there's other ways in which he can keep
some degree of tariffs in place. The
other thing I would just highlight as
we've learned from tariff experts in in
the last year is that this concept of a
refund is is not something that happens
immediately. There are things from the
2018-2019 trade wars that are literally
still being litigated now. So, to me I
think it's a kind of a a headline fake
um followed by probably a continuation
of tariffs in some form or another. And
if there are to be any refunds had,
it'll be a long process. And in
2018-2019, 6-7 years ago and it's still
being litigated for some companies. Well
said. Alex, thank you. Alex Stratton of
Morgan Stanley on the retailers later
this week. I'm not even sure how the
Supreme Court suggests how you remedy
any of this, even if they do strike it
down. They're going to say, "Hey, lower
court, why don't you figure this out?
Thanks. Get back to us."
>> We'll move on. See in the new year.
Exactly. We're moving on. Up next,
Abigail, what of UPS as the Federal
Reserve awaits long-delayed economic
data?
[Music]
Counting gets underway off and about 60
minutes away this Monday morning.
Equities just about unchanged on the S&P
500. Pretty flat through last week, but
last week incredibly choppy,
particularly for the big cap names on
the Nasdaq 100. The Nasdaq 100 this
morning also going absolutely nowhere.
With some morning movers, some stock
moves this morning. Here's Danny Berger
with more. Hey, Danny. Hey, John. Maybe
the reason the Nasdaq that was slightly
able to outperform is cuz of what's
happening with Alphabet this morning.
Shares are up about 3 and 3/4 of a
percent for halfway in filings over the
weekend showing that they are taking a
new stake in Alphabet worth about $4.9
billion. So, again, those shares go
higher this morning. Elsewhere, some
earnings to work through. Quantum
computing, a huge gain for this stock up
15.8%. To be fair, this thing is up 34%
year-to-date. But at earnings that were
positive, positive profit, positive
earnings versus a negative one at this
time last year. The CEO saying that they
had a revenue so far this year that's
grown 280%
and that includes a deal with what it
said was a top US bank. It didn't name
the bank, but we know banks are getting
more into quantum computing. So, that's
the latest with those shares. Finally,
rounding things out, a story breaking in
the last hour or so that Novo Nordisk is
looking to undercut Eli Lilly with a
cheaper price for cash buyers of its
obesity drug. Now, at the entry level,
it's the same price as what Eli Lilly is
offering, but once you get to the higher
doses, it is significantly cheaper. It's
also trying to fight off some of those
copycat pharmacies, those compounding
pharmacies, which do offer cheaper
products for cash buyers, but that extra
competition sending Lilly shares down by
1 and 1/4% John. Hey, Danny, thank you.
Appreciate the update. More from Danny,
Matt Miller in about 30 minutes from now
on Bloomberg Open Interest going into
the open and bell. As sent to the
economy, investors are waiting the
long-delayed September jobs report due
Thursday morning. The median estimate in
our survey calling for an increase of
50,000 payrolls. Bloomberg's Enda Curran
joins us now for more. Enda, good
morning, sir. We've got one question.
What's a good number on Thursday? Is 50
a good number?
Well, 50 would be the break-even rate
according to some economists, including
our own Bloomberg economist, John. And
so, if it came in around 50, say, and
the unemployment rate is 4.3%, then it
probably leans into the idea that maybe
the Fed will hold off cutting rates in
December. We know the pricing has fallen
back for that move to around 40-odd
percent last week after that hawkish Fed
speak. So, a jobs number that comes in
around that area will be seen as I think
as tolerable. There'll be a lot of focus
on leisure and hospitality to see what
they contribute to the September
numbers. Also, people will be keeping an
eye out to see any impact of those dodge
cuts that were announced way back at the
start of the year, but are expected to
start filtering through to numbers
towards the end of this year, maybe
kicking on from September onwards. But
ultimately, we have to remember this is
now September jobs data. It's quite
stale, quite dated, and the focus will
quickly turn to the October jobs data.
And whenever that's released, that's
only going to be a partial read. So,
still plenty of choppiness when it comes
to trying to get a picture on where the
job situation is at. We get some time to
commentary from Federal Reserve
officials later on this morning and also
some Fed minutes later on this week.
This morning, we'll hear from the New
York Fed President John Williams,
Jefferson, Kashkari, Waller also
speaking. And uh we spoke to Torsten
Slok of Apollo earlier on this morning.
And we had a conversation about a new
era for this Federal Reserve. The amount
of dispersion that you're seeing in the
dot plot in the SEP when they put out
those forecasts seems like it's getting
wider. The Fed speak feels like it's
getting messier. And that you've covered
the central bank story around the world
for a long time. Do you sense this is a
new era for Federal Reserve
communication?
Well, we're certainly seeing play out in
public now what Chair Powell hinted at
at that last policy meeting, John. If
you remember when he came on the press
conference and he said, "Look, December
is no done deal, far from it." Now we
know what he means. Clearly, several
policy makers and officials behind the
scenes were lukewarm at that cut last
month at best and certainly don't see
scope for a cut going forward from here.
Now, there are those who say this speaks
to the idea that maybe Chair Powell is
using his influence, maybe the board's
starting to fracture. Sure, it's all
spilling out into the open. That's one
interpretation. But another view is is
that we're at we are at something of a
moving feast, a complicated moment in
the economy. Is the labor market
reflecting a major layoffs or is it
reflecting the supply and immigration
story? Is inflation broadly tracking
okay, even if it is above the Fed's
target, or does it reflect persistent
inflation that the Fed can't keep its
eye off of, in particular maybe in some
of the service sectors and some of the
tariff inflation as well? I mean, there
are very different interpretations in
what's going on in the economy. That's
clearly now hanging out in the policy
makers' public comments. But there's no
doubt, if you're looking at this from
the outside in in terms of a unified,
single, coherent narrative from the Fed,
well, there clearly isn't one right now.
Enda, thank you. Enda Curran of
Bloomberg down in Washington, D.C.
There's good reason, Lisa, for that
division on the FOMC. It's a complicated
moment, and as Enda said, especially
with the jobs creation or the lack
therein, how much is this due to
technological changes? I just wonder
what the mandate is at the Fed. The
tacit mandate has been, yes, price
inflation as well as the jobs backdrop.
There also has been this financial
stability overlay, and I wonder how that
plays into things, too. We heard about
that from Jeff Schmidt of the Kansas
City Fed, and I wonder how much we hear
about that from other Fed speakers as
well.
>> My takeaway on the approach is as
follows. Say that you really care about
the inflation side of the mandate, say a
lot, then ignore it, and focus on jobs.
And focus on jobs. And anytime there's
any weakness in the labor market, step
up and cut interest rates. That's the
observation of mine over the last few
years at least with Chairman Powell. And
frankly, the data that we're getting
kind of plays into that given the fact
that we're going to get the nonfarm
payrolls, but we're not going to get
CPI. So, how much do they have going
into that meeting in December, and how
important is the figure that we get uh
in terms of influencing these Fed
officials?
>> easy for the chairman to talk about pain
in that speech a number of years ago in
Jackson Hole because there wasn't any.
There wasn't any pain in the labor
market. So, he said, you know, there
might be some pain. We've got to go
through that pain to get inflation down.
The moment there was pain in the labor
market, the moment you saw any, they cut
100 basis points. The moment you saw
some more, they cut another 50. Now, I
think it'd be hard to push for this for
me to believe that going into 2026 that
if you didn't see if you saw further
labor market weakness that they wouldn't
cut interest rates again, even with
inflation closer to three than to two,
because they've been doing that for the
last 18 months.
>> And they say that there are some
disinflationary impacts down the line.
San Francisco Federal Reserve came out
with a paper over the weekend talking
about how in past periods, tariffs have
been disinflationary. That you've
actually seen a real sort of a demand
shock as a result. So, there is this
feeling that in the past, any kind of
inflation they do see, they want to look
through. What is the ramification of
that? A lot of bullish estimates coming
from Wall Street.
>> Big time. 7-800 from Morgan Stanley for
the end of next year. It's not bad, is
it? All right, let's stick with
payrolls. Abigail what of UBS writing
the headline game? We expect in
employment could add some division to
the FOMC, currently split between calls
for more cuts and calls to stay on hold.
Abigail joins us now for more. Abigail,
good morning. Good to see you. Morning.
Thank you for having me. You heard me
ask Enda Curran the question, what's
good? What's good in the September jobs
report? What is a good number in 2025?
Look, I mean, we're currently sitting
above consensus. You referenced
consensus is around 50K. We'll see, I
guess, if there's been any change in
that as you potentially get some more
estimates in. It's been a while we've
been waiting for this report. Um but we
think that, you know, a 95K gain in
total payrolls could could be possible.
That's our base case forecast. And I
think the key thing to note for the
September report is the expectations are
that there's a potential for residual
seasonality to support this data rather
than this necessarily signaling a
significant improvement in the pace of
job gains. I think it's probably that
that September number reflects the fact
that you've seen
job gains that would have been spread
across the summer. So, it's essentially
a bit of catch-up for something that
previously would have been spread by the
seasonal factors across the the summer
months. So, I I don't necessarily see it
as a a kind of good print. I think it's
a
it's not as necessarily a big shift in
the pace of job gains. And I think it's
something that you know, we'll have to
put in that context, I think, when we're
thinking about what does this mean for
the go forward? Abigail, are you giving
the perfect rationale for why we could
see a better than expected number at a
Fed that still cuts next month? So, that
is our base case. You know, we are
expecting that the FOMC will deliver
that 25 basis point cut in December.
I think the I think for the Fed, the key
thing here is that if you look at not
just the the kind of BLS data that
they've been waiting on after the the
shutdown, if you look at a range of
indicators, you know, you really have
seen the labor market as I mean Chair
Powell himself has said it doesn't look
any doesn't look any better doesn't
necessarily look any worse and it
already looked pretty soft. And I do
think there is a sense that when we look
at the go forward from that kind of
potentially supported September number
and then think about what we could see
in October November. Our sense is that
we continue to see that weakness. One of
the things we've been watching closely
is obviously retail hiring and if you
looked at the Challenger report that the
kind of pace of September October hiring
intentions in the retail sector looks
very soft versus previous years. Now it
could be that retailers are not
reporting their hiring intentions. Maybe
the data isn't quite capturing the the
full spectrum of what's happening, but
it does look very soft. And so I do
think that's something that we're
watching closely is just the the whole
spectrum of labor market indicators.
>> How much do you buy the fact that
interest rates above 4% have been really
restrictive for a lower income cohort of
the economy? That this really is pain
that Chair Powell was talking about in
that one speech in 2022
and we've seen it come to the fore and
it's exacerbating the K-shaped economy.
Do you believe that? And do you believe
that rate cuts will help mediate that?
Yeah, so I do believe that the you are
seeing this bifurcation in the US
consumer. I think when you look at the
the data, you can see that for those
lower income groups, you can see that
savings have been drawn down
significantly. You can see that for
upper income groups, balance sheets look
really healthy still, right? So I do
think there is this sense that there is
that bifurcation. And I think when you
look at kind of things like delinquency
rates, you can look at delinquency rates
across the income spectrum and for
credit cards for example, you've seen a
significant rise for those at the lower
end of the income spectrum.
>> that because of Fed policy? I think it's
I think it's partly related to the fact
that you've seen interest rates
remaining well remaining relative
relative elevated. I do think that is
part of the story and I think if you
look at not just the the consumer, if
you look at say residential investment
in the US economy, right? It's a very
interest rate sensitive sector and
you've seen it contracting for most of
the past 18 months. So I do think there
is a sense that there is interest rate
sensitivity with it within the the
economy. Yeah. Abigail, you don't think
the impact from tariffs is over. What
more are we going to see? I think the
next wave of this is the pass-through
from businesses wearing the cost of
those tariffs in their margins and
passing them on to the consumer. I think
the reason we've seen that process being
relatively slow is because one
businesses didn't have a great sense of
what the tariff policy was. There's been
so much flux and so much change that I
think businesses were reticent to pass
on a price increase to consumers before
they knew what they needed to pass on. I
think we're kind of reaching that point
now potentially and I think if we think
about how businesses are going to manage
that cost increase, I think the sense
would be is that they would begin to
pass it on at a point where they think
potentially demand could be a little bit
stronger. So you think holiday season
could be one area where you start to see
some of those price pass-throughs coming
through more readily from businesses.
How much do you project? So we're
expecting that
by the end of next year, we think
tariffs will have added around 80 basis
points to core PC inflation. So we're
expecting that you still have a
significant amount of pass-through to
come through. And that's why you know,
we get this sense that we think through
the end of the year and into the
beginning of next year, we think we'll
be seeing this bigger real DPI shock for
the US consumer and I think that's where
we start to see a little bit more of a
slowing in the consumer. And then I
think the next big thing is going to be
what happens with fiscal policy. Do we
see fiscal policy coming in? Is that
something that we think would then
support the economy going forward? Our
expectations are that we see a really
healthy refund season next year. So our
sense is that by Q2, you could see a
pick up higher again in the US consumer
supported by that big beautiful bill
that was passed earlier this year.
>> Is that a good enough reason for the Fed
to sit this out?
The anticipated pick up in growth we
might see early next year.
I think for the Fed just now, the sense
is that the risk of making a weak labor
market even weaker, I think will
ultimately outweigh the risk of
potential second round
second round inflation effects at this
juncture. I think if you think about the
way that FOMC members are talking about
that balance between the labor market
and the inflation risk, they're clearly
focused on this kind of weakness in the
labor market and then when they're
thinking about inflation, I do think
there is this sense that the tariff
related pass-through will be a one-off
kind of price level increase and they
tend to kind of look through that. But I
think the question will be what we see
in the data. I think if they were to see
a significant improvement in the economy
and they were more concerned about those
second round effects, that could be a
reason to to kind of pause and take
things a little bit more slowly.
>> in a seam at 95? 95K? Yes. Okay.
Abigail, what of UPS? 95K. That's the
largest estimate I've seen so far.
There's only eight others. There'll be
more still to come going into Thursday.
Yeah, but it's a 95 with a huge
asterisk, which is that it's playing
catch-up and it's not really that good.
So the Fed can still cut rates even
though it's it's a high headline number,
which just goes to the point of what are
these numbers that we're looking at and
the interpretation's going to be as
important as the actual figure itself.
The jobs report just around the corner.
Thursday payrolls for you. There we go.
A new flavor to the jobs report. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 negative by 0.2%
as we count it down to the opening bell.
Here's your Bloomberg brief with
Yahaira. Hey Yahaira.
>> Hi John. Amazon has launched its first
US dollar corporate bond offering in
about three years. According to a person
familiar, the company is selling debt in
as many as six parts and initial price
discussions for a 40-year bond are about
1.15 percentage points above Treasuries.
Proceeds from the sale are for general
corporate purposes.
Meanwhile, US airlines are resuming
normal operations this morning after
more than a week of government-mandated
flight reductions. The FAA announcing it
would lift cuts across 40 major airports
at around 6:00 this morning. The agency
said staffing levels have continued to
snap back since the shutdown ended last
week.
And Bitcoin has fallen sharply after
topping 126,000
last month, briefly wiping out all of
its 2025 gains before stabilizing
earlier today. Bitcoin's total market
value fell by about $600 billion from an
October high. While there's no clear
trigger, some traders are citing the
four-year having cycle while others
blame global liquidity. That's Bloomberg
brief, John. Yahaira, thank you. Some
more details on that Amazon debt
offering. The news dropped earlier on
this morning. Yahaira went over it a few
times already. A six-part bond offering.
The longest piece of that, 40 years.
They're looking to raise about $12
billion
from that US bond offering later on
today. Yeah, and just to give you a
sense of how well this is priced in
terms of what the value proposition is
for Amazon. That 40-year bond is
offering 1.15 percentage points above
benchmark Treasury yields. In other
words, the premium that they've got to
pay over what the US government has to
pay is about a percentage point, which
highlights why they are doing this now.
>> So something very similar from Alphabet
in their long bond offering as well.
>> Exactly, very well priced. Amazon this
morning on the equity side of things
positive by 0.2%. Up next with you up
for the day ahead plus Ben Writesel of
Melius as markets countdown to Nvidia
earnings later on this week. They drop
on Wednesday after the closing bell.
From New York City, you're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
There's still a long way to run in this
this AI trade. The question now is are
we facing a bubble? It's overcapacity,
it's leverage in the system and it's
valuations that we need to focus on and
we think that we're still in the early
stages of the story. Investors are
willing to make investments, but
importantly, what we're seeing now is
that these investments in AI don't look
speculative like bubbles of the past.
That was Stephen Parker of JP Morgan
Private Bank going into the opening
bell. Equity futures just about
unchanged on the S&P 500. We're down by
2/10 of 1% on the Nasdaq 100. For the
Nasdaq, for the S&P, for equity markets
worldwide, all eyes on Nvidia earnings
due on Wednesday. Ben Writesel of Melius
Research reiterating his buy on the
stock and price target of 300 expecting
further upside to data center revenues
writing in Nvidia's commentary around AI
demand trends get more important each
report given wide-ranging concerns
around end demand, energy availability,
and China's role in the AI race. Ben
joins us now for more. Ben, good
morning.
>> Hey, good morning. Great to be here.
>> Great to have you with us. Talk about
China's role in all of this. Some
interesting comments from Jensen Huang
in the last few weeks regarding the race
over AI and China may be leading the US.
It was in the Financial Times. He's got
some massaging to do. The PR for
Washington DC and the White House. Well,
he's been trying hard to get himself
back into China and it it's not looking
so good. I think that the hawks have
Trump's ears right now and so we're not
looking for any of that and don't think
they'll put any of that in their
guidance. We were hoping,
but you know, there could be a case that
others outside of China need to invest
even more to to stay ahead and I think I
think while Jensen says that about
China, I think we're pretty well ahead.
I
you know, the the chips there there's
news and propaganda that comes out from
time to time, but but we we I still
think we're pretty well ahead. I think
we don't want to relinquish our lead,
but I think that we're well ahead right
now.
>> Ben, I know you've done the research on
this. Talk to us a little bit about how
they'll use their cash, whether it's
capital returns, buybacks, or whether
it's going to be to continue investing
in the build-out of this ecosystem. How
do they choose between one versus the
other? Yeah, a couple like about a year
or two ago, we kept writing that they're
going to have to do the mother of all
buybacks and now it looks like they'll
do
probably less than half of their free
cash flow will go into buybacks and more
than half will go into either
acquisitions, which are more unlikely
cuz they're so big, but also investing
in the ecosystem. And we think that that
is going to be a much bigger place where
they put their cash, and we've seen it
already with OpenAI, with a few other
things, CoreWeave and whatnot, and we
think they're going to keep doing that.
But I think that it's going to have more
more scrutiny because we got to make
sure that they're picking the winners
that actually deliver, and it doesn't
look as circular. So, there's going to
continue to be that debate, are you
investing? Is it just circular? You hand
them cash, they buy your GPUs, or I
think people will actually look at it
more favorably if those companies do
tend to win. Like if we start seeing
OpenAI's valuation continue to go up,
people say, "Hey, you know, it's a good
investment." CoreWeave, like to see, you
know, that stock recover, that kind of
stuff, then people will be happy about
it. But if they're investing in things
that crumble, then the market will be
very harsh. I I think Jensen uh is going
to be explaining that a bit more on this
call as cash is piling up. Who do you
think the winners are? Do you think the
OpenAI's the right bet, or do you think
that somebody else would be better? I
think right now there's people say five
or six model companies, it's not sure
who's going to win, but OpenAI has the
most consumer usage, uh Anthropic's
doing very very well in the enterprise,
we wrote about them today, uh very
promising. And then obviously, there's
the large language model companies,
Google, Meta, uh Microsoft actually uh
has access to OpenAI and their own
models. I think it'll be a combo of
those five, uh and that those are the
ones that I think are going to keep
investing throughout the next several
years, and I'm not sure a winner will
shake out probably until we're three to
five years more down the road. I
remember a a year or two ago people were
saying that the concentration of Nvidia
buyers in just a handful of names was uh
a bug, was a problem with the investment
thesis for Nvidia. Are you seeing it
more now as a feature because these are
cash-rich investors that are
increasingly going to be uh compelled to
buy more from Nvidia? Well, yeah, what
what also happens too is and uh when you
hear about these plans from Sam Altman,
while they look cartoonish, you know,
with the 1.4 trillion uh by 2033, it
Google's got to look at that and go,
"Gosh, I have to invest." So does
Amazon, so does everybody. And they
Microsoft, and they all look at that and
they go, "We have to invest to keep up.
Like what if they win? We can't afford
to lose." But but
half of the revenue from Nvidia at least
is coming from these massively cash-rich
companies. Um it is it is a little scary
to some to see OpenAI now being such a
big part of the growth. And I think if
OpenAI, and I I think they will, raise
the money they need to just keep going,
uh that will assuage a lot of concerns.
What about cash-rich countries? You
talked about how you're basically not
banking on Nvidia getting back into
China. Does the Middle East fill that
hole? Yeah, I think that
the piece in the Middle East type stuff
is actually way more important than
people think. I mean, we need the Gulf
nations to be aligned with the United
States so that they can receive licenses
to build data centers and use their
energy-rich economies to build massive
data centers so that they can power
their own sovereign AI. And I think
President Trump and his administration
see this, and and that's what we're
hoping for. So, instead of filling up
the void, sorry, it fill what could fill
the void from China is these cash-rich
Middle Eastern nations, especially the
Persian Gulf ones, buying a ton of
Nvidia chips. And so far, you know, so
good. Likely that'll be on display
tomorrow with the Crown Prince coming to
Washington. But do you think the China
hawks have a point in the administration
about potentially the tech leaking to
Beijing?
I think that
uh you know, when you talk to Nvidia and
you say, "What are the workloads?" it
really doesn't seem like they're going
to China's going to put their entire
national defense on an Nvidia stack cuz
it's an American company. I mean, we
have to be realistic here. I think that
it some of it gets overblown on the the
Washington side, but it's tough to say
that. I mean, what if something does
happen? So, I don't want to be the one
responsible. But in terms of uh the
whole scare, I think it's a little
overblown. What what I'm what I worry
about, and I do think Jensen has a
point, is if China does develop their
own tech stack and then selling it to
our allies across the Middle East and
Europe, and then we have that issue
there. Uh I don't know if that's a hole
we want to go down. So, I I there's
really no good answer to the whole to
the whole thing, and I think it'll
continue to be a hot debate. Ben, great
work. Enjoyed the note as well. Thank
you, sir.
>> Oh, thanks. Thank you very much.
>> Ben Reitzes there of Melius with a buy
rating on Nvidia and a $300 price
target. Nvidia reporting earnings
Wednesday after the close. Very curious
to see what they say about OpenAI and
how much they want to diversify and who
they want to support and what the
program programming capabilities are
that they're kind of getting behind. I
think that's fascinating. What a week
coming up. Nvidia earnings later this
week, earnings from retailers Target,
Walmart, Home Depot, and a payrolls
report this coming Thursday. Coming up
tomorrow, Peter Tchir of Academy
Securities, Liz Ann Sonders of Charles
Schwab, Kate Howe of JP Morgan, and Lisa
Shalett of Morgan Stanley from New York
City this morning. Good morning. Thank
you for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]